geminidr/doc/tutorials/F2Img-DRTutorial/ex1_f2im_ontarget_cmdline.rst, before:

.. ex1_f2im_ontarget_cmdline.rst

.. _ontarget_cmdline:

*********************************************************************************
Example 1 - Small sources with dither on target - Using the "reduce" command line
*********************************************************************************

This chapter will guide you on reducing **Flamingos-2 imaging data** using
command line tools. In this example we reduce a Flamingos-2 observation of
a star and distant galaxy field. The observation is a simple dither-on-target
sequence. Just open a terminal to get started.

While the example cannot possibly cover all situations, it will help you get
acquainted with the reduction of Flamingos-2 data with DRAGONS. We
encourage you to look at the :ref:`tips_and_tricks` and
:ref:`issues_and_limitations` chapters to learn more about F2 data reduction.

DRAGONS installation comes with a set of useful scripts that are used to
reduce astronomical data. The most important script is called
|reduce|, which is extensively explained in the |RSUser|.
It is through that command that a DRAGONS reduction is launched.

For this tutorial, we will be also using other support tools like:

* |dataselect|
* |showd|
* |typewalk|
* |caldb|


The dataset
===========

If you have not already, download and unpack the tutorial's data package.
Refer to :ref:`datasetup` for the links and simple instructions.

The dataset specific to this example is described in:

    :ref:`ontarget_dataset`

Here is a copy of the table for quick reference.

+---------------+---------------------+--------------------------------+
| Science       || S20131121S0075-083 | Y-band, 120 s                  |
+---------------+---------------------+--------------------------------+
| Darks         || S20131121S0369-375 | 2 s, short darks for BPM       |
|               +---------------------+--------------------------------+
|               || S20131120S0115-120 | 120 s, for science data        |
|               || S20131121S0010     |                                |
|               || S20131122S0012     |                                |
|               || S20131122S0438-439 |                                |
+---------------+---------------------+--------------------------------+
| Flats         || S20131129S0320-323 | 20 s, Lamp On, Y-band          |
|               +---------------------+--------------------------------+
|               || S20131126S1111-116 | 20 s, Lamp Off, Y-band         |
+---------------+---------------------+--------------------------------+


.. _setup_caldb:

Set up the Calibration Service
==============================

.. important::  Remember to set up the calibration service.

    Instructions to configure and use the calibration service are found in
    :ref:`cal_service`, specifically the these sections:
    :ref:`cal_service_config` and :ref:`cal_service_cmdline`.



.. _check_files:

Check files
===========

For this example, all the raw files we need are in the same directory called
``../playdata/example1/``. Let us learn a bit about the data we have.

Ensure that you are in the ``playground`` directory and that the ``conda``
environment that includes DRAGONS has been activated.

Let us call the command tool |typewalk|:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ typewalk -d ../playdata/example1/

   directory:  /path_to_my_files/f2img_tutorial/playdata/example1
        S20131120S0115.fits ............... (AT_ZENITH) (AZEL_TARGET) (CAL) (DARK) (F2) (GEMINI) (NON_SIDEREAL) (RAW) (SOUTH) (UNPREPARED)
        ...
        S20131121S0075.fits ............... (F2) (GEMINI) (IMAGE) (RAW) (SIDEREAL) (SOUTH) (UNPREPARED)
        ...
        S20131121S0369.fits ............... (AT_ZENITH) (AZEL_TARGET) (CAL) (DARK) (F2) (GEMINI) (NON_SIDEREAL) (RAW) (SOUTH) (UNPREPARED)
        ...
        S20131126S1111.fits ............... (AZEL_TARGET) (CAL) (F2) (FLAT) (GCALFLAT) (GCAL_IR_OFF) (GEMINI) (IMAGE) (LAMPOFF) (NON_SIDEREAL) (RAW) (SOUTH) (UNPREPARED)
        ...
        S20131129S0320.fits ............... (AT_ZENITH) (AZEL_TARGET) (CAL) (F2) (FLAT) (GCALFLAT) (GCAL_IR_ON) (GEMINI) (IMAGE) (LAMPON) (NON_SIDEREAL) (RAW) (SOUTH) (UNPREPARED)
        ...
   Done DataSpider.typewalk(..)

This command will open every FITS file within the directory passed after the ``-d``
flag (recursively) and will print an unsorted table with the file names and the
associated tags. For example, calibration files will always have the ``CAL``
tag. Flat images will always have the ``FLAT`` tag. Dark files will have the
``DARK`` tag. This means that we can start getting to know a bit more about our
data set just by looking at the tags. The output above was trimmed for
presentation.


Create file lists
=================

This data set contains science and calibration frames. For some programs, it
could have different observed targets and different exposure times depending
on how you like to organize your raw data.

The DRAGONS data reduction pipeline does not organize the data for you. You
have to do it. DRAGONS provides tools to help you with that.

The first step is to create input file lists.  The tool "|dataselect|" helps
with that.  It uses Astrodata tags and "|descriptors|" to select the files and
send the filenames to a text file that can then be fed to "|reduce|".  (See the
|astrodatauser| for information about Astrodata.)

First, navigate to the ``playground`` directory in the unpacked data package::

    cd <path>/f2im_tutorial/playground

Two lists for the darks
-----------------------

Our data set contains two sets of DARK files: some 120-second darks
matching the science data and some 2-second darks to create the bad pixel
mask (BPM). If you did not know the exposure times of the darks, you
could send the |dataselect| results to the |showd| command line tool as follows
to get the information:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ dataselect --tags DARK ../playdata/example1/*.fits | showd -d exposure_time
   --------------------------------------------------------
   filename                                   exposure_time
   --------------------------------------------------------
   ../playdata/example1/S20131120S0115.fits           120.0
   ../playdata/example1/S20131120S0116.fits           120.0
   ../playdata/example1/S20131120S0117.fits           120.0
   ...
   ../playdata/example1/S20131121S0369.fits             2.0
   ../playdata/example1/S20131121S0370.fits             2.0
   ../playdata/example1/S20131121S0371.fits             2.0
   ...
   ../playdata/example1/S20131122S0012.fits           120.0
   ../playdata/example1/S20131122S0438.fits           120.0
   ../playdata/example1/S20131122S0439.fits           120.0

(The list has been shortened for presentation.)

The ``|`` is the Unix "pipe" operator and it is used to pass output from
|dataselect| to |showd|.

Let us go ahead and create our two list of darks. The following line creates
a list of dark files that have exposure time of 120 seconds:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ dataselect --tags DARK --expr "exposure_time==120" ../playdata/example1/*.fits -o darks_120s.list

``--expr`` is used to filter the files based on their |descriptors|. Here we are
selecting files with exposure time of 120 seconds. You can repeat the same
command with the other exposure time to get the list of short darks.

.. code-block:: bash

   $ dataselect --tags DARK --expr "exposure_time==2" ../playdata/example1/*.fits -o darks_002s.list


A list for the flats
--------------------
Now let us create the list containing the flat files:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ dataselect --tags FLAT ../playdata/example1/*.fits -o flats.list

We know that our dataset has only one filter (Y-band). If our dataset
contained data with more filters, we would have had to use the ``--expr``
option to select the appropriate filter as follows:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ dataselect --tags FLAT --expr "filter_name=='Y'" ../playdata/example1/*.fits -o flats_Y.list

.. note::
    Flamingos-2 Y, J and H flat fields are created from lamps-on and lamps-off
    flats. The software will sort them out, so put all lamps-on, lamp-off
    flats, in the list and let the software use them appropriately.


A list for the science observations
-----------------------------------

Finally, we want to create a list of the science targets. We are looking for
files that are not calibration frames. To exclude them from our
selection we can use the ``--xtags``, e.g., ``--xtags CAL``.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ dataselect --xtags CAL ../playdata/example1/*.fits -o sci_images.list

Remember that you can use the ``--expr`` option to select targets with different
names (``object``) or exposure times (``exposure_time``), or use it with any
of the datasets |descriptors|.

.. note::

   For Flamingos-2 data, it is useful to check the World Coordinate System (WCS)
   of the science data.

   ::

       $ reduce -r checkWCS @sci_images.list

   Please see details in :ref:`checkWCS` in the :ref:`tips_and_tricks` chapter.

.. _process_dark_files:

Create a Master Dark
====================

We start the data reduction by creating a master dark for the science data.
Here is how you reduce the 120 s dark data into a master dark:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ reduce @darks_120s.list

The ``@`` character before the name of the input file is the "at-file" syntax.
More details can be found in the |atfile| documentation.

Because the database was given the "store" option in the ``dragonsrc`` file,
the processed dark will be automatically added to the database at the end of
the recipe.

.. note:: The file name of the output processed dark is the file name of the
    first file in the list with ``_dark`` appended as a suffix.  This the
    general naming scheme used by "|reduce|".

.. note:: If you wish to inspect the processed calibrations before adding them
    to the calibration database, remove the "store" option attached to the
    database in the ``dragonsrc`` configuration file.  You will then have to
    add the calibrations manually following your inspection, eg.

    ``caldb add S20131120S0115_dark.fits``

.. note::
    The master dark will be saved in the same folder where |reduce| was
    called *and* inside the ``./calibrations/processed_dark`` folder. The latter
    location is to cache a copy of the file. This applies to all the processed
    calibration.


Create a Bad Pixel Mask
=======================

A Bad Pixel Mask (BPM) can be built using a set of flat images with the
lamps on and off and a set of short exposure dark files. Here, our shortest dark
files have 2 second exposure time. Again, we use the |reduce| command to
produce the BPMs.

It is important to note that the recipe library association is done based on
the nature of the **first file in the input list**. Since the recipe to
make the BPM is located in the recipe library for flats, the first item in
the list must be a flat.

For Flamingos-2, the filter wheel's location is such that the choice of filter
does not interfere with the results. Here we have Y-band flats, so we will
use Y-band flats.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ reduce @flats_Y.list @darks_002s.list -r makeProcessedBPM


The ``-r`` tells |reduce| which recipe from the recipe library for F2-FLAT
to use. If not specified the system will use the default recipe which is the
one that produces a master flat, this is not what we want here. The output
image will be saved in the current working directory with a ``_bpm`` suffix.

Since this is a user-made BPM, you will have to pass it to DRAGONS on the
as an option on the command line.


Create a Master Flat Field
==========================

The F2 Y-band master flat is created from a series of lamp-on and lamp-off
exposures. They should all have the same exposure time. Each flavor is
stacked (averaged), then the lamp-off stack is subtracted from the lamp-on
stack and the result normalized.

We create the master flat field and add it to the calibration manager as
follow:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ reduce @flats_Y.list -p addDQ:user_bpm="S20131129S0320_bpm.fits"

Here, the ``-p`` flag tells |reduce| to set the input parameter ``user_bpm``
of the ``addDQ`` primitive to the filename of the BPM we have just created.
There will be a message "WARNING - No static BPMs defined". This is
normal. This is because F2 does not have a static BPM that is distributed
with the associated calibrations. Your user BPM is the only one that is
available.


Reduce the Science Images
=========================
Now that we have the master dark and the master flat, we can tell |reduce|
to process our science data. |reduce| will look at the local database
for calibration files.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ reduce @sci_images.list -p addDQ:user_bpm="S20131129S0320_bpm.fits"

This command retrieves the master dark and the master flat, and applies them
to the science data. For sky subtraction, the software analyses the sequence
to establish whether this is a dither-on-target or an offset-to-sky sequence
and then proceeds accordingly. Finally, the sky-subtracted frames are aligned
and stacked together. Sources in the frames are used for the alignment.

The final product file will have a ``_image.fits`` suffix and it is shown below.

The output stack units are in electrons (header keyword BUNIT=electrons).
The output stack is stored in a multi-extension FITS (MEF) file.  The science
signal is in the "SCI" extension, the variance is in the "VAR" extension, and
the data quality plane (mask) is in the "DQ" extension.

.. warning::

    The upper-left quadrant of this science sequence is rather messy. This
    is caused by the PWFS2 guide probe (see :ref:`issue_p2`). Photometry
    in this portion of the image is likely to be seriously compromised.

.. the figure below can be created using the script inside the ``savefig``
   folder.

.. figure:: _static/S20131121S0075_stack.fits.png
   :align: center

Commit message:

updates to docs to reflect that Reduce.uparms is a dict now (it has been for a long time...).  Also a few todos in the tutorials for things that need to be addressed in "master".

geminidr/doc/tutorials/F2Img-DRTutorial/ex1_f2im_ontarget_cmdline.rst, after:

.. ex1_f2im_ontarget_cmdline.rst

.. _ontarget_cmdline:

*********************************************************************************
Example 1 - Small sources with dither on target - Using the "reduce" command line
*********************************************************************************

This chapter will guide you on reducing **Flamingos-2 imaging data** using
command line tools. In this example we reduce a Flamingos-2 observation of
a star and distant galaxy field. The observation is a simple dither-on-target
sequence. Just open a terminal to get started.

While the example cannot possibly cover all situations, it will help you get
acquainted with the reduction of Flamingos-2 data with DRAGONS. We
encourage you to look at the :ref:`tips_and_tricks` and
:ref:`issues_and_limitations` chapters to learn more about F2 data reduction.

DRAGONS installation comes with a set of useful scripts that are used to
reduce astronomical data. The most important script is called
|reduce|, which is extensively explained in the |RSUser|.
It is through that command that a DRAGONS reduction is launched.

For this tutorial, we will be also using other support tools like:

* |dataselect|
* |showd|
* |typewalk|
* |caldb|


The dataset
===========

If you have not already, download and unpack the tutorial's data package.
Refer to :ref:`datasetup` for the links and simple instructions.

The dataset specific to this example is described in:

    :ref:`ontarget_dataset`

Here is a copy of the table for quick reference.

+---------------+---------------------+--------------------------------+
| Science       || S20131121S0075-083 | Y-band, 120 s                  |
+---------------+---------------------+--------------------------------+
| Darks         || S20131121S0369-375 | 2 s, short darks for BPM       |
|               +---------------------+--------------------------------+
|               || S20131120S0115-120 | 120 s, for science data        |
|               || S20131121S0010     |                                |
|               || S20131122S0012     |                                |
|               || S20131122S0438-439 |                                |
+---------------+---------------------+--------------------------------+
| Flats         || S20131129S0320-323 | 20 s, Lamp On, Y-band          |
|               +---------------------+--------------------------------+
|               || S20131126S1111-116 | 20 s, Lamp Off, Y-band         |
+---------------+---------------------+--------------------------------+


.. _setup_caldb:

Set up the Calibration Service
==============================

.. important::  Remember to set up the calibration service.

    Instructions to configure and use the calibration service are found in
    :ref:`cal_service`, specifically the these sections:
    :ref:`cal_service_config` and :ref:`cal_service_cmdline`.



.. _check_files:

Check files
===========

For this example, all the raw files we need are in the same directory called
``../playdata/example1/``. Let us learn a bit about the data we have.

Ensure that you are in the ``playground`` directory and that the ``conda``
environment that includes DRAGONS has been activated.

Let us call the command tool |typewalk|:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ typewalk -d ../playdata/example1/

   directory:  /path_to_my_files/f2img_tutorial/playdata/example1
        S20131120S0115.fits ............... (AT_ZENITH) (AZEL_TARGET) (CAL) (DARK) (F2) (GEMINI) (NON_SIDEREAL) (RAW) (SOUTH) (UNPREPARED)
        ...
        S20131121S0075.fits ............... (F2) (GEMINI) (IMAGE) (RAW) (SIDEREAL) (SOUTH) (UNPREPARED)
        ...
        S20131121S0369.fits ............... (AT_ZENITH) (AZEL_TARGET) (CAL) (DARK) (F2) (GEMINI) (NON_SIDEREAL) (RAW) (SOUTH) (UNPREPARED)
        ...
        S20131126S1111.fits ............... (AZEL_TARGET) (CAL) (F2) (FLAT) (GCALFLAT) (GCAL_IR_OFF) (GEMINI) (IMAGE) (LAMPOFF) (NON_SIDEREAL) (RAW) (SOUTH) (UNPREPARED)
        ...
        S20131129S0320.fits ............... (AT_ZENITH) (AZEL_TARGET) (CAL) (F2) (FLAT) (GCALFLAT) (GCAL_IR_ON) (GEMINI) (IMAGE) (LAMPON) (NON_SIDEREAL) (RAW) (SOUTH) (UNPREPARED)
        ...
   Done DataSpider.typewalk(..)

This command will open every FITS file within the directory passed after the ``-d``
flag (recursively) and will print an unsorted table with the file names and the
associated tags. For example, calibration files will always have the ``CAL``
tag. Flat images will always have the ``FLAT`` tag. Dark files will have the
``DARK`` tag. This means that we can start getting to know a bit more about our
data set just by looking at the tags. The output above was trimmed for
presentation.


Create file lists
=================

This data set contains science and calibration frames. For some programs, it
could have different observed targets and different exposure times depending
on how you like to organize your raw data.

The DRAGONS data reduction pipeline does not organize the data for you. You
have to do it. DRAGONS provides tools to help you with that.

The first step is to create input file lists.  The tool "|dataselect|" helps
with that.  It uses Astrodata tags and "|descriptors|" to select the files and
send the filenames to a text file that can then be fed to "|reduce|".  (See the
|astrodatauser| for information about Astrodata.)

First, navigate to the ``playground`` directory in the unpacked data package::

    cd <path>/f2im_tutorial/playground

Two lists for the darks
-----------------------

Our data set contains two sets of DARK files: some 120-second darks
matching the science data and some 2-second darks to create the bad pixel
mask (BPM). If you did not know the exposure times of the darks, you
could send the |dataselect| results to the |showd| command line tool as follows
to get the information:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ dataselect --tags DARK ../playdata/example1/*.fits | showd -d exposure_time
   --------------------------------------------------------
   filename                                   exposure_time
   --------------------------------------------------------
   ../playdata/example1/S20131120S0115.fits           120.0
   ../playdata/example1/S20131120S0116.fits           120.0
   ../playdata/example1/S20131120S0117.fits           120.0
   ...
   ../playdata/example1/S20131121S0369.fits             2.0
   ../playdata/example1/S20131121S0370.fits             2.0
   ../playdata/example1/S20131121S0371.fits             2.0
   ...
   ../playdata/example1/S20131122S0012.fits           120.0
   ../playdata/example1/S20131122S0438.fits           120.0
   ../playdata/example1/S20131122S0439.fits           120.0

(The list has been shortened for presentation.)

The ``|`` is the Unix "pipe" operator and it is used to pass output from
|dataselect| to |showd|.

Let us go ahead and create our two list of darks. The following line creates
a list of dark files that have exposure time of 120 seconds:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ dataselect --tags DARK --expr "exposure_time==120" ../playdata/example1/*.fits -o darks_120s.list

``--expr`` is used to filter the files based on their |descriptors|. Here we are
selecting files with exposure time of 120 seconds. You can repeat the same
command with the other exposure time to get the list of short darks.

.. code-block:: bash

   $ dataselect --tags DARK --expr "exposure_time==2" ../playdata/example1/*.fits -o darks_002s.list


A list for the flats
--------------------
Now let us create the list containing the flat files:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ dataselect --tags FLAT ../playdata/example1/*.fits -o flats.list

We know that our dataset has only one filter (Y-band). If our dataset
contained data with more filters, we would have had to use the ``--expr``
option to select the appropriate filter as follows:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ dataselect --tags FLAT --expr "filter_name=='Y'" ../playdata/example1/*.fits -o flats_Y.list

.. note::
    Flamingos-2 Y, J and H flat fields are created from lamps-on and lamps-off
    flats. The software will sort them out, so put all lamps-on, lamp-off
    flats, in the list and let the software use them appropriately.


A list for the science observations
-----------------------------------

Finally, we want to create a list of the science targets. We are looking for
files that are not calibration frames. To exclude them from our
selection we can use the ``--xtags``, e.g., ``--xtags CAL``.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ dataselect --xtags CAL ../playdata/example1/*.fits -o sci_images.list

Remember that you can use the ``--expr`` option to select targets with different
names (``object``) or exposure times (``exposure_time``), or use it with any
of the datasets |descriptors|.

.. note::

   For Flamingos-2 data, it is useful to check the World Coordinate System (WCS)
   of the science data.

   ::

       $ reduce -r checkWCS @sci_images.list

   Please see details in :ref:`checkWCS` in the :ref:`tips_and_tricks` chapter.

.. todo:: checkWCS is clear, yet the reduce later crashes at standardizeWCS.


.. _process_dark_files:

Create a Master Dark
====================

We start the data reduction by creating a master dark for the science data.
Here is how you reduce the 120 s dark data into a master dark:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ reduce @darks_120s.list

The ``@`` character before the name of the input file is the "at-file" syntax.
More details can be found in the |atfile| documentation.

Because the database was given the "store" option in the ``dragonsrc`` file,
the processed dark will be automatically added to the database at the end of
the recipe.

.. note:: The file name of the output processed dark is the file name of the
    first file in the list with ``_dark`` appended as a suffix.  This the
    general naming scheme used by "|reduce|".

.. note:: If you wish to inspect the processed calibrations before adding them
    to the calibration database, remove the "store" option attached to the
    database in the ``dragonsrc`` configuration file.  You will then have to
    add the calibrations manually following your inspection, eg.

    ``caldb add S20131120S0115_dark.fits``

.. note::
    The master dark will be saved in the same folder where |reduce| was
    called *and* inside the ``./calibrations/processed_dark`` folder. The latter
    location is to cache a copy of the file. This applies to all the processed
    calibration.


Create a Bad Pixel Mask
=======================

A Bad Pixel Mask (BPM) can be built using a set of flat images with the
lamps on and off and a set of short exposure dark files. Here, our shortest dark
files have 2 second exposure time. Again, we use the |reduce| command to
produce the BPMs.

It is important to note that the recipe library association is done based on
the nature of the **first file in the input list**. Since the recipe to
make the BPM is located in the recipe library for flats, the first item in
the list must be a flat.

For Flamingos-2, the filter wheel's location is such that the choice of filter
does not interfere with the results. Here we have Y-band flats, so we will
use Y-band flats.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ reduce @flats_Y.list @darks_002s.list -r makeProcessedBPM


The ``-r`` tells |reduce| which recipe from the recipe library for F2-FLAT
to use. If not specified the system will use the default recipe which is the
one that produces a master flat, this is not what we want here. The output
image will be saved in the current working directory with a ``_bpm`` suffix.

Since this is a user-made BPM, you will have to pass it to DRAGONS on the
as an option on the command line.


Create a Master Flat Field
==========================

The F2 Y-band master flat is created from a series of lamp-on and lamp-off
exposures. They should all have the same exposure time. Each flavor is
stacked (averaged), then the lamp-off stack is subtracted from the lamp-on
stack and the result normalized.

We create the master flat field and add it to the calibration manager as
follow:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ reduce @flats_Y.list -p addDQ:user_bpm="S20131129S0320_bpm.fits"

Here, the ``-p`` flag tells |reduce| to set the input parameter ``user_bpm``
of the ``addDQ`` primitive to the filename of the BPM we have just created.
There will be a message "WARNING - No static BPMs defined". This is
normal. This is because F2 does not have a static BPM that is distributed
with the associated calibrations. Your user BPM is the only one that is
available.


Reduce the Science Images
=========================
Now that we have the master dark and the master flat, we can tell |reduce|
to process our science data. |reduce| will look at the local database
for calibration files.

.. todo:: The reduce command below is not working. It crashes at standardizeWCS.
     Add prepare:bad_wcs=fix to the reduce command.   Chris is looking into this.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ reduce @sci_images.list -p addDQ:user_bpm="S20131129S0320_bpm.fits"

This command retrieves the master dark and the master flat, and applies them
to the science data. For sky subtraction, the software analyses the sequence
to establish whether this is a dither-on-target or an offset-to-sky sequence
and then proceeds accordingly. Finally, the sky-subtracted frames are aligned
and stacked together. Sources in the frames are used for the alignment.

The final product file will have a ``_image.fits`` suffix and it is shown below.

The output stack units are in electrons (header keyword BUNIT=electrons).
The output stack is stored in a multi-extension FITS (MEF) file.  The science
signal is in the "SCI" extension, the variance is in the "VAR" extension, and
the data quality plane (mask) is in the "DQ" extension.

.. warning::

    The upper-left quadrant of this science sequence is rather messy. This
    is caused by the PWFS2 guide probe (see :ref:`issue_p2`). Photometry
    in this portion of the image is likely to be seriously compromised.

.. the figure below can be created using the script inside the ``savefig``
   folder.

.. figure:: _static/S20131121S0075_stack.fits.png
   :align: center
