.TH automosaic 1 "28-04-2017" "version 2.0" "automosaic man page"
.SH NAME
automosaic
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B automosaic
[\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR]
[\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-image\fR]
[\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-tile\fR]
[\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR]
infiles [infiles ...]]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B automosaic(1)
is the command line interface to the MosaicAD class. \fBautomosaic\fR receives
user options and one or more FITS files and sets up the calls to construct a
mosaicked image of the full FITS file, including all image extensions. Options
allow the selection of tiling image extensions onto the output mosaic image
plane instead of a full transformation. Callers may also opt to tile or 
transform the science image plane only. \fBautomosaic\fR writes the mosaic FITS
file to cwd() and will have an '_mosaic' suffix on the output file name.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
[\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR]
Show this help message and exit.
.TP
[\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-image\fR]
Tranform image (SCI) data only.
.TP
[\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-tile\fR]
Tile data only.
.TP
[\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR]
Show program's version number and exit.

.SH EXAMPLES
Build a fully transformed Mosaic image FITS file from a GMOS Hamamatsu image
with a full complement of extensions:

  $ \fBautomosaic\fR S20161025S0111_varAdded.fits

  AutoMosaic, 2.0.0 (beta)
  Working on S20161025S0111_varAdded.fits
  AstroData object built
  Working on type: GMOS IMAGE
  Constructing MosaicAD instance ...
  Making mosaic, converting data ...
  No OBJMASK on S20161025S0111_varAdded.fits
  Writing file ...
  Mosaic fits image written: S20161025S0111_varAdded_mosaic.fits

Tile all image extensions only:

    $ \fBautomosaic\fR -t S20161025S0111_varAdded.fits

Tile image (SCI) data plane only:

    $ \fBautomosaic\fR -t -i S20161025S0111_varAdded.fits


.SH ENVIRONMENT
Installed gemini_python, v2.0.0 (2017).

.SH BUGS
None known.

.SH AUTHOR
Kenneth Anderson, Gemini Observatory, 2017(c). 
