.TH dataselect 1 "Oct 2019" "version 0.1" "dataselect man page"
.SH NAME
dataselect
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dataselect
[\fB\-h\fR]
[\fB\-t\fR TAGS [TAGS ...], \fB\-\-tags\fR TAGS [TAGS ...]]
[\fB\-\-xtags\fR XTAGS [XTAGS ...]]
[\fB\-\-expr\fR EXPRESSION]
[\fB-\-strict\fR]
[\fB\-o\fR OUTPUT, \fB\-\-output\fR OUTPUT]
[\fB\-v\ , \fB\-\-verbose\fR]
[\fB\-\-debug\fR]
inputs [inputs ...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dataselect
helps users find files matching certain criteria defined by astrodata tags and
expressions involving descriptors. Descriptors are specified to fine tune
dataselect matches.

As the \fB--tags\fR option indicates, \fBdataselect\fR can find and report data
that match specific tag criteria. For example, a user might want to find all
GMOS image flats under a certain directory. \fBdataselect\fR will locate and
report all datasets that would match the tag set (GMOS, IMAGE, FLAT).

A user may request that a file be written containing all datasets matching
the data selection. An output file is specified through the \fB\-o\fR,
\fB\-\-output\fR option. Output files are formatted so they may be passed
directly to the reduce command line via that applications 'at-file' (@file)
facility. (See the \fIRecipe System Users Manual\fR for further detail.)

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
show the \fBdataselect\fR help message and exit
.TP
\fB\-t\fR TAG [,TAG ...], \fB\-\-tags\fR TAG [,TAG ...]
Comma-separated list of required tags. Find datasets that match only these tag
criteria.

.RS
Eg.,
.RS
\fB\-\-tags\fR SOUTH,GMOS,IMAGE

.RE
will report datasets that are all tagged \fBSOUTH\fR and \fBGMOS\fR and \fBIMAGE\fR.
.RE
.TP
\fB\-\-xtags\fR XTAG [,XTAG ...]
Comma-separated list of tags to exclude from reporting. Same form as
.B -t, --tags
option (above).
.TP
\fB\-\-expr\fR EXPRESSION
Show files matching <EXPRESSION>.
.TP
.TP
\fB\-\-strict
Toggle on strict expression matching for
.B exposure_time
(not just close) and for
.B filter_name
(match component number).
.TP
\fB\-o\fR OUTPUT, \fB\-\-output\fR OUTPUT
Write reported files to this file. Effective only with \fB\-\-tags\fR option.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB-\-verbose\fR
Toggle verbose mode when using [-o, --output]. Default is False.
.TP
\fB\-\-debug\fR
Toggle debug mode. Default is False.
.SH EXAMPLES
Select all the FITS files inside the raw directory with a tag that matches DARK.

.RS
$ dataselect raw/*.fits --tags DARK

.RE
To select darks of a specific exposure time:

.RS
$ dataselect raw/*.fits --tags DARK --expr='exposure_time==20'
.RE

To send that list to a file that can be used later:

.RS
$ dataselect raw/*.fits --tags DARK --expr='exposure_time==20' -o dark20s.lis
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT
Recommend Anaconda 4.2.0, Astropy 1.2.1.
.SH BUGS
None known.

.SH SEE ALSO
.I reduce(1), typewalk(1)
