.TH typewalk 1 "1 Dec. 2016" "version 0.1" "typewalk man page"
.SH NAME
typewalk
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B typewalk
[\fB\-h\fR]
[\fB\-b\fR BATCHNUM]
[\fB\-d\fR TWDIR]
[\fB\-f\fR FILEMASK]
[\fB\-n\fR]
[\fB\-\-or\fR]
[\fB\-o\fR OUTFILE]
[\fB\-\-tags\fR TAGS [TAGS ...]]
[\fB\-\-xtags\fR XTAGS [XTAGS ...]]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B typewalk
examines files in a directory or directory tree and reports the tag set through the
astrodata classification scheme. Running \fBtypewalk\fR on a directory containing
some Gemini datasets will demonstrate what users can expect to see.

By default, \fBtypewalk\fR will recurse all subdirectories under the current
directory. Users may specify an explicit directory with the \fB-d\fR or
\fB\-\-dir\fR option; the behavior remains recursive.

Files are selected and reported through a regular expression mask which,
by default, finds all ".fits" and ".FITS" files. Users can change this mask
with the \fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-filemask\fR option.

As the \fB--tags\fR option indicates, \fBtypewalk\fR can find and report data
that match specific tag criteria. For example, a user might want to find all
GMOS image flats under a certain directory. \fBtypewalk\fR will locate and
report all datasets that would match the tag set (GMOS, IMAGE, FLAT).

A user may request that a file be written containing all datasets matching
astrodata tags qualifiers passed by the \fB--tags\fR option. An output file is
specified through the \fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-out\fR
option. Output files are formatted so they may be passed directly to the
reduce command line via that applications 'at-file' (@file) facility.
(See the \fIRecipe System Users Manual\fR for further detail.)

Users may select tag matching logic with the \fB\-\-or switch\fR. By default,
qualifying logic is \fBAND\fR, i.e. the logic specifies that `all` tags must be
present (x AND y); \fB\-\-or\fR specifies that ANY tags, enumerated with
\fB\-\-tags\fR, may be present (x OR y). \fB\-\-or\fR is only effective when the
\fB\-\-tags\fR option is specified with more than one tag.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
show the \fBtypewalk\fR help message and exit
.TP
\fB\-b\fR BATCHNUM, \fB\-\-batch\fR BATCHNUM
In shallow walk mode, number of files to process at a time in the current
directory. Controls behavior in large data directories. Default is \fB100\fR.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR TWDIR, \fB\-\-dir\fR TWDIR
Walk this directory and report tags. default is cwd.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR FILEMASK, \fB\-\-filemask\fR FILEMASK
Show files matching regex <FILEMASK>. Default is all .fits and .FITS files.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-norecurse\fR
Do not recurse subdirectories.
.TP
\fB\-\-or\fR
Use OR logic on 'tags' criteria. If not specified, matching logic is AND
(See \fB\-\-tags\fR). Eg., \fB\-\-or \-\-tags\fR
SOUTH GMOS IMAGE will report datasets that are one of SOUTH \fBOR\fR GMOS
\fBOR\fR IMAGE.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR OUTFILE, \fB\-\-out\fR OUTFILE
Write reported files to this file. Effective only with \fB\-\-tags\fR option.
.TP
\fB\-\-tags\fR TAGS [TAGS ...]
Find datasets that match only these tag criteria. Eg., \fB\-\-tags\fR SOUTH
GMOS IMAGE will report datasets that are all tagged \fBSOUTH\fR and \fBGMOS\fR
and \fBIMAGE\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-xtags\fR XTAGS [XTAGS ...]
Exclude \fBXTAGS\fR from reporting.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
Recommend Anaconda 4.2.0, Astropy 1.2.1., astrodata.__version__ '9999'
(Until an official release of astrodata (new hope)).
.SH BUGS
None known.

.SH SEE ALSO
.I reduce(1)
