geminidr/doc/tutorials/GNIRSLS-DRTutorial/ex1_gnirsls_Kband32mm_api.rst, before:

.. ex1_gnirsls_Kband32mm_api.rst

.. include:: symbols.txt

.. _gnirs_Kband32mm_api:

***********************************************************************
Example 1 - K-band Longslit Point Source - Using the "Reduce" class API
***********************************************************************

In this example, we will reduce the GNIRS K-band longslit observation of
"SDSSJ162449.00+321702.0", a white dwarf with an M dwarf companion, using the Python
programmatic interface.

This observation uses the 32 l/mm grating, the short-blue camera, a 0.3 arcsec
slit, and is set to a central wavelength of 2.2 |um|.   The dither pattern is
the standard ABBA.

The dataset
===========
If you have not already, download and unpack the tutorial's data package.
Refer to :ref:`datasetup` for the links and simple instructions.

The dataset specific to this example is described in:

    :ref:`gnirsls_Kband32mm_dataset`

Here is a copy of the table for quick reference.

+---------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| Science             || N20170609S0127-130                          |
+---------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| Science flats       || N20170609S0131-135                          |
+---------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| Science arcs        || N20170609S0136                              |
+---------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| Telluric            || N20170609S0118-121                          |
+---------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| BPM                 || bpm_20100716_gnirs_gnirsn_11_full_1amp.fits |
+---------------------+----------------------------------------------+

Configuring the interactive interface
=====================================
In ``~/.dragons/``, add the following to the configuration file ``dragonsrc``::

    [interactive]
    browser = your_preferred_browser

The ``[interactive]`` section defines your preferred browser.  DRAGONS will open
the interactive tools using that browser.  The allowed strings are "safari",
"chrome", and "firefox".

Importing libraries
-------------------

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:

    import glob

    import astrodata
    import gemini_instruments
    from recipe_system.reduction.coreReduce import Reduce
    from gempy.adlibrary import dataselect

The ``dataselect`` module will be used to create file lists for the
biases, the flats, the arcs, the standard, and the science observations.
The ``Reduce`` class is used to set up and run the data
reduction.


Setting up the logger
---------------------
We recommend using the DRAGONS logger.  (See also :ref:`double_messaging`.)

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:
    :lineno-start: 7

    from gempy.utils import logutils
    logutils.config(file_name='gnirsls_tutorial.log')


Set up the Calibration Service
------------------------------

.. important::  Remember to set up the calibration service.

    Instructions to configure and use the calibration service are found in
    :ref:`cal_service`, specifically the these sections:
    :ref:`cal_service_config` and :ref:`cal_service_api`.

Create file lists
=================
The next step is to create input file lists.  The module ``dataselect`` helps
with that.  It uses Astrodata tags and |descriptors| to select the files and
store the filenames to a Python list that can then be fed to the ``Reduce``
class. (See the |astrodatauser| for information about Astrodata and for a list
of |descriptors|.)

The first list we create is a list of all the files in the ``playdata``
directory.

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:
    :lineno-start: 9

    all_files = glob.glob('../playdata/example1/*.fits')
    all_files.sort()

We will search that list for files with specific characteristics.  We use
the ``all_files`` :class:`list` as an input to the function
``dataselect.select_data()`` .  The function's signature is::

    select_data(inputs, tags=[], xtags=[], expression='True')

We show several usage examples below.

A list for the flats
--------------------
The GNRIS flats will be stack together.  Therefore it is important to ensure
that the flats in the list are compatible with each other.  You can use
`dataselect` to narrow down the selection as required.  Here, we have only
the flats that were taken with the science and we do not need extra selection
criteria.

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:
    :lineno-start: 11

    flats = dataselect.select_data(all_files, ['FLAT'])

A list for the arcs
-------------------
The GNIRS longslit arc was obtained at the end of the science observation.
Often two are taken.  We will use both in this case and stack them later.

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:
    :lineno-start: 12

    arcs = dataselect.select_data(all_files, ['ARC'])


A list for the telluric
-----------------------
DRAGONS does not recognize the telluric star as such.  This is because
the observations are taken like science data and the GNIRS headers do not
explicitly state that the observation is a telluric standard.  For now, the
`observation_class` descriptor can be used to differential the telluric
from the science observations, along with the rejection of the `CAL` tag to
reject flats and arcs.

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:
    :lineno-start: 13

    tellurics = dataselect.select_data(
        all_files,
        [],
        ['CAL'],
        dataselect.expr_parser('observation_class=="partnerCal"')
    )

A list for the science observations
-----------------------------------

The science observations can be selected from the observation
class, ``science``, that is how they are differentiated from the telluric
standards which are ``partnerCal``.

First, let's have a look at the list of objects.

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:
    :lineno-start: 19

    all_science = dataselect.select_data(
        all_files,
        [],
        ['CAL'],
        dataselect.expr_parser('observation_class=="science"')
    )
    for sci in all_science:
        ad = astrodata.open(sci)
        print(sci, '  ', ad.object())


::

    ../playdata/example1/N20170609S0127.fits   SDSSJ162449.00+321702.0
    ../playdata/example1/N20170609S0128.fits   SDSSJ162449.00+321702.0
    ../playdata/example1/N20170609S0129.fits   SDSSJ162449.00+321702.0
    ../playdata/example1/N20170609S0130.fits   SDSSJ162449.00+321702.0

Here we only have one object from the same sequence.  If we had multiple
objects we could add the object name in the expression.

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:
    :lineno-start: 28

    scitarget = dataselect.select_data(
        all_files,
        [],
        ['CAL'],
        dataselect.expr_parser('object=="SDSSJ162449.00+321702.0"')
    )

Bad Pixel Mask
==============
Starting with DRAGONS v3.1, the static bad pixel masks (BPMs) are now handled
as calibrations.  They
are downloadable from the archive instead of being packaged with the software.
They are automatically associated like any other calibrations.  This means that
the user now must download the BPMs along with the other calibrations and add
the BPMs to the local calibration manager.

See :ref:`getBPM` in :ref:`tips_and_tricks` to learn about the various ways
to get the BPMs from the archive.

To add the BPM included in the data package to the local calibration database:

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:
    :lineno-start: 34

    for bpm in dataselect.select_data(all_files, ['BPM']):
        caldb.add_cal(bpm)

Master Flat Field
=================
GNIRS longslit flat fields are normally obtained at night along with the
observation sequence to match the telescope and instrument flexure.

The GNIRS longslit flatfield requires only lamp-on flats.  Subtracting darks
only increases the noise.

The flats will be stacked.

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:
    :lineno-start: 36

    reduce_flats = Reduce()
    reduce_flats.files.extend(flats)
    reduce_flats.runr()

GNIRS data are affected by a "odd-even" effect where alternate rows in the
GNIRS science array have gains that differ by approximately 10 percent.  When
you run ``normalizeFlat`` in interactive mode you can clearly see the two
levels.

In interactive mode, the objective is to get a fit that falls inbetween the
two sets of points, with a symmetrical residual fit.  In this case, order=30
worked well.

Note that you are not required to run in interactive mode, but you might want
to if flat fielding is critical to your program.

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:
    :lineno-start: 39

    reduce_flats = Reduce()
    reduce_flats.files.extend(flats)
    reduce_flats.uparms = dict([('interactive', True)])
    reduce_flats.runr()

.. note:: If the database is not set to "store" automatically,  the
          processed flats can be added manually as follows:

          .. code-block:: python

              for f in reduce_flats.output_filenames:
                  caldb.add_cal(f)

.. image:: _graphics/gnirsls_evenoddflat.png
   :width: 600
   :alt: Even-odd effect in flats


Processed Arc - Wavelength Solution
===================================
Obtaining the wavelength solution for GNIRS longslit data can be a complicated
topic.  The quality of the results and what to use depend greatly on the
wavelength regime and the grating.

Our configuration in this example is K-band with a central wavelength less
then 2.3 |um|, using the 32 l/mm grating.  It is expected that the GCAL arc
lamp will have a sufficient number of lines available.   This is the simplest
case.  (See :ref:`gnirsls_wavecal_guide`.)

Because the slit length does not cover the whole array, we want to know where
the unilluminated areas are located and ignore them when the distortion
correction is calculated (along with the wavelength solution).  That information
is measured during the creation of the flat field and stored in the processed
flat.   Right now, the association rules do not automatically associate
flats to arcs, therefore we need to specify the processed flat on the
command line.  Using the flat is optional but it is recommended.


.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:
    :lineno-start: 43

    reduce_arcs = Reduce()
    reduce_arcs.files.extend(arcs)
    reduce_arcs.uparms = dict([('flatCorrect:flat', reduce_flats.output_filenames[0])])
    reduce_arcs.runr()

The primitive ``determineWavelengthSolution``, used in the recipe, has an
interactive mode. To activate the interactive mode:

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:
    :lineno-start: 47

    reduce_arcs = Reduce()
    reduce_arcs.files.extend(arcs)
    reduce_arcs.uparms = dict([
                ('flatCorrect:flat', reduce_flats.output_filenames[0]),
                ('interactive', True),
                ])
    reduce_arcs.runr()


The interactive tools are introduced in section :ref:`interactive`.

We can see from the interactive tool plot that the wavelength solution has
reasonable line coverage between 1.98 and 2.4 |um|.

We will see later that the final science spectrum goes about 0.1 |um| beyond
the coverage.  The solution in the outer area is unconstrained.  If the lines
of scientific interest are beyond the line list range and wavelength accuracy
is very important, using sky lines, if strong enough in the science spectrum,
might be a better solution.  (Refer to :ref:`this example <gnirsls_Jband111mm_api_arc>`.)

.. image:: _graphics/gnirsls_Kband32mm_arc.png
   :width: 600
   :alt: Arc line identifications

.. image:: _graphics/gnirsls_Kband32mm_arcfit.png
   :width: 600
   :alt: Arc line fit


Telluric Standard
=================
The telluric standard observed before the science observation is "hip 78649".
The spectral type of the star is A2.5IV.

To properly calculate and fit a telluric model to the star, we need to know
its effective temperature.  To properly scale the sensitivity function (to
use the star as a spectrophotometric standard), we need to know the star's
magnitude.  Those are inputs to the ``fitTelluric`` primitive.

From *Boehm-Vitense, E. 1982 ApJ 255, 191 "Effective temperatures of A and
F stars".*, Table 2, we find that the effective temperature of an A2.5IV star
is about 8150 K. Using Simbad, we find that the star has a magnitude of
K=3.925.

Note that the data are recognized by Astrodata as normal GNIRS longslit science
spectra.  To calculate the telluric correction, we need to specify the telluric
recipe (``reduceTelluric``), otherwise the default science reduction will be
run.

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:
    :lineno-start: 54

    reduce_telluric = Reduce()
    reduce_telluric.files.extend(tellurics)
    reduce_telluric.recipename = 'reduceTelluric'
    reduce_telluric.uparms = dict([
                ('fitTelluric:bbtemp', 8150),
                ('fitTelluric:magnitude', 'K=3.925'),
                ('fitTelluric:interactive', True),
                ])
    reduce_telluric.runr()

Using a Chebyshev polynomial of order 10 leads to a fit that better follows
the continuum without being too wavy.  The fit might look a bit high in the
blue but remember that this is a region where the telluric absorption becomes
important.

.. image:: _graphics/gnirsls_Kband32mm_tellfit.png
   :width: 600
   :alt: fit to the telluric standard

Science Observations
====================
The science target is a white dwarf with an M dwarf companion.  The sequence
is one ABBA dither pattern. DRAGONS will flatfield, wavelength calibrate,
subtract the sky, stack the aligned spectra, extract the source, and finally
remove telluric features and flux calibrate.

Following the wavelength calibration, the default recipe has an optional
step to adjust the wavelength zero point using the sky lines.  By default,
this step will NOT make any adjustment.  We found that in general, the
adjustment is so small as being in the noise.  If you wish to make an
adjustment, or try it out, see :ref:`wavzero` to learn how.

For this dataset, the automatic wavelength zero point algorithm would find a
shift of 0.1461 pixels (-0.09408 nm), so not really significant.  This is
typical and why the default is set to do nothing.

.. note::  In this observation, there is only one real source to extract.  If there
   were multiple sources in the slit, regardless of whether they are of
   interest to the program, DRAGONS will locate them, trace them, and extract
   them automatically. Each extracted spectrum is stored in an individual
   extension in the output multi-extension FITS file.

   The automatic source detection in this case does find two extra spurious
   sources at the extreme left edge of the cross-section.  They are not real
   sources.  Just ignore them or remove them in interactive mode.

This is what one raw image looks like.

.. image:: _graphics/gnirsls_Kband32mm_raw.png
   :width: 400
   :alt: raw science image

With all the calibrations in the local calibration manager, one only needs
to do as follows to reduce the science observations and extract the 1-D
spectrum.

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:
    :lineno-start: 63

    reduce_science = Reduce()
    reduce_science.files.extend(scitarget)
    reduce_science.runr()

To run the reduction with all the interactive tools activated, set the
``interactive`` parameter to ``True``.

At the ``traceApertures`` step, the fit one gets automatically for this source
is perfectly reasonable, well within the envelope of the source aperture.
To improve the fit, one could activate sigma clipping and increase to number
of iteration to 1 to get a straighter fit that ignores the deviant points at
the edges of the spectrum. This can be done manually with the interactive
tool (try it), or on the command line by adding ``-p traceApertures:niter=1``
to the ``reduce`` call.

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:
    :lineno-start: 66

    reduce_science = Reduce()
    reduce_science.files.extend(scitarget)
    reduce_science.uparms = dict([
                        ('traceApertures:niter', 1),
                        ('interactive', True),
                        ])
    reduce_science.runr()

The 2D spectrum before extraction looks like this, with blue wavelengths at
the bottom and the red-end at the top.

.. image:: _graphics/gnirsls_Kband32mm_2d.png
   :width: 400
   :alt: 2D spectrum

The 1D extracted spectrum before telluric correction or flux calibration,
obtained by adding ``('extractSpectra:write_outputs', True)`` to the
``uparms`` dictionary, looks like this.

.. image:: _graphics/gnirsls_Kband32mm_extracted.png
   :width: 600
   :alt: 1D extracted spectrum before telluric correction or flux calibration

The 1D extracted spectrum after telluric correction but before flux
calibration, obtained by adding ``('telluricCorrect:write_outputs', True)`` to the
``uparms`` dictionary, looks
like this.

.. image:: _graphics/gnirsls_Kband32mm_tellcor.png
   :width: 600
   :alt: 1D extracted spectrum after telluric correction or before flux calibration

And the final spectrum, corrected for telluric features and flux calibrated.

.. image:: _graphics/gnirsls_Kband32mm_1d.png
   :width: 600
   :alt: 1D extracted spectrum after telluric correction and flux calibration

Because of the low signal at the edges, it is not unusual for the flux
calibration to diverge at the extremities; the function is simply not well
constrained there.

Commit message:

clarification about cleaning up between the examples, working directory and calib database.

geminidr/doc/tutorials/GNIRSLS-DRTutorial/ex1_gnirsls_Kband32mm_api.rst, after:

.. ex1_gnirsls_Kband32mm_api.rst

.. include:: symbols.txt

.. _gnirs_Kband32mm_api:

***********************************************************************
Example 1 - K-band Longslit Point Source - Using the "Reduce" class API
***********************************************************************

In this example, we will reduce the GNIRS K-band longslit observation of
"SDSSJ162449.00+321702.0", a white dwarf with an M dwarf companion, using the Python
programmatic interface.

This observation uses the 32 l/mm grating, the short-blue camera, a 0.3 arcsec
slit, and is set to a central wavelength of 2.2 |um|.   The dither pattern is
the standard ABBA.

The dataset
===========
If you have not already, download and unpack the tutorial's data package.
Refer to :ref:`datasetup` for the links and simple instructions.

The dataset specific to this example is described in:

    :ref:`gnirsls_Kband32mm_dataset`

Here is a copy of the table for quick reference.

+---------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| Science             || N20170609S0127-130                          |
+---------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| Science flats       || N20170609S0131-135                          |
+---------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| Science arcs        || N20170609S0136                              |
+---------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| Telluric            || N20170609S0118-121                          |
+---------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| BPM                 || bpm_20100716_gnirs_gnirsn_11_full_1amp.fits |
+---------------------+----------------------------------------------+

Configuring the interactive interface
=====================================
In ``~/.dragons/``, add the following to the configuration file ``dragonsrc``::

    [interactive]
    browser = your_preferred_browser

The ``[interactive]`` section defines your preferred browser.  DRAGONS will open
the interactive tools using that browser.  The allowed strings are "safari",
"chrome", and "firefox".

Importing libraries
-------------------

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:

    import glob

    import astrodata
    import gemini_instruments
    from recipe_system.reduction.coreReduce import Reduce
    from gempy.adlibrary import dataselect

The ``dataselect`` module will be used to create file lists for the
biases, the flats, the arcs, the standard, and the science observations.
The ``Reduce`` class is used to set up and run the data
reduction.


Setting up the logger
---------------------
We recommend using the DRAGONS logger.  (See also :ref:`double_messaging`.)

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:
    :lineno-start: 7

    from gempy.utils import logutils
    logutils.config(file_name='gnirsls_tutorial.log')


Set up the Calibration Service
------------------------------

.. important::  Remember to set up the calibration service.

    Instructions to configure and use the calibration service are found in
    :ref:`cal_service`, specifically the these sections:
    :ref:`cal_service_config` and :ref:`cal_service_api`.

We recommend that you clean up your working directory (``playground``) and
start a fresh calibration database (``caldb.init(wipe=True)``) when you start a new
example.

Create file lists
=================
The next step is to create input file lists.  The module ``dataselect`` helps
with that.  It uses Astrodata tags and |descriptors| to select the files and
store the filenames to a Python list that can then be fed to the ``Reduce``
class. (See the |astrodatauser| for information about Astrodata and for a list
of |descriptors|.)

The first list we create is a list of all the files in the ``playdata``
directory.

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:
    :lineno-start: 9

    all_files = glob.glob('../playdata/example1/*.fits')
    all_files.sort()

We will search that list for files with specific characteristics.  We use
the ``all_files`` :class:`list` as an input to the function
``dataselect.select_data()`` .  The function's signature is::

    select_data(inputs, tags=[], xtags=[], expression='True')

We show several usage examples below.

A list for the flats
--------------------
The GNRIS flats will be stack together.  Therefore it is important to ensure
that the flats in the list are compatible with each other.  You can use
`dataselect` to narrow down the selection as required.  Here, we have only
the flats that were taken with the science and we do not need extra selection
criteria.

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:
    :lineno-start: 11

    flats = dataselect.select_data(all_files, ['FLAT'])

A list for the arcs
-------------------
The GNIRS longslit arc was obtained at the end of the science observation.
Often two are taken.  We will use both in this case and stack them later.

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:
    :lineno-start: 12

    arcs = dataselect.select_data(all_files, ['ARC'])


A list for the telluric
-----------------------
DRAGONS does not recognize the telluric star as such.  This is because
the observations are taken like science data and the GNIRS headers do not
explicitly state that the observation is a telluric standard.  For now, the
`observation_class` descriptor can be used to differential the telluric
from the science observations, along with the rejection of the `CAL` tag to
reject flats and arcs.

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:
    :lineno-start: 13

    tellurics = dataselect.select_data(
        all_files,
        [],
        ['CAL'],
        dataselect.expr_parser('observation_class=="partnerCal"')
    )

A list for the science observations
-----------------------------------

The science observations can be selected from the observation
class, ``science``, that is how they are differentiated from the telluric
standards which are ``partnerCal``.

First, let's have a look at the list of objects.

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:
    :lineno-start: 19

    all_science = dataselect.select_data(
        all_files,
        [],
        ['CAL'],
        dataselect.expr_parser('observation_class=="science"')
    )
    for sci in all_science:
        ad = astrodata.open(sci)
        print(sci, '  ', ad.object())


::

    ../playdata/example1/N20170609S0127.fits   SDSSJ162449.00+321702.0
    ../playdata/example1/N20170609S0128.fits   SDSSJ162449.00+321702.0
    ../playdata/example1/N20170609S0129.fits   SDSSJ162449.00+321702.0
    ../playdata/example1/N20170609S0130.fits   SDSSJ162449.00+321702.0

Here we only have one object from the same sequence.  If we had multiple
objects we could add the object name in the expression.

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:
    :lineno-start: 28

    scitarget = dataselect.select_data(
        all_files,
        [],
        ['CAL'],
        dataselect.expr_parser('object=="SDSSJ162449.00+321702.0"')
    )

Bad Pixel Mask
==============
Starting with DRAGONS v3.1, the static bad pixel masks (BPMs) are now handled
as calibrations.  They
are downloadable from the archive instead of being packaged with the software.
They are automatically associated like any other calibrations.  This means that
the user now must download the BPMs along with the other calibrations and add
the BPMs to the local calibration manager.

See :ref:`getBPM` in :ref:`tips_and_tricks` to learn about the various ways
to get the BPMs from the archive.

To add the BPM included in the data package to the local calibration database:

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:
    :lineno-start: 34

    for bpm in dataselect.select_data(all_files, ['BPM']):
        caldb.add_cal(bpm)

Master Flat Field
=================
GNIRS longslit flat fields are normally obtained at night along with the
observation sequence to match the telescope and instrument flexure.

The GNIRS longslit flatfield requires only lamp-on flats.  Subtracting darks
only increases the noise.

The flats will be stacked.

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:
    :lineno-start: 36

    reduce_flats = Reduce()
    reduce_flats.files.extend(flats)
    reduce_flats.runr()

GNIRS data are affected by a "odd-even" effect where alternate rows in the
GNIRS science array have gains that differ by approximately 10 percent.  When
you run ``normalizeFlat`` in interactive mode you can clearly see the two
levels.

In interactive mode, the objective is to get a fit that falls inbetween the
two sets of points, with a symmetrical residual fit.  In this case, order=30
worked well.

Note that you are not required to run in interactive mode, but you might want
to if flat fielding is critical to your program.

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:
    :lineno-start: 39

    reduce_flats = Reduce()
    reduce_flats.files.extend(flats)
    reduce_flats.uparms = dict([('interactive', True)])
    reduce_flats.runr()

.. note:: If the database is not set to "store" automatically,  the
          processed flats can be added manually as follows:

          .. code-block:: python

              for f in reduce_flats.output_filenames:
                  caldb.add_cal(f)

.. image:: _graphics/gnirsls_evenoddflat.png
   :width: 600
   :alt: Even-odd effect in flats


Processed Arc - Wavelength Solution
===================================
Obtaining the wavelength solution for GNIRS longslit data can be a complicated
topic.  The quality of the results and what to use depend greatly on the
wavelength regime and the grating.

Our configuration in this example is K-band with a central wavelength less
then 2.3 |um|, using the 32 l/mm grating.  It is expected that the GCAL arc
lamp will have a sufficient number of lines available.   This is the simplest
case.  (See :ref:`gnirsls_wavecal_guide`.)

Because the slit length does not cover the whole array, we want to know where
the unilluminated areas are located and ignore them when the distortion
correction is calculated (along with the wavelength solution).  That information
is measured during the creation of the flat field and stored in the processed
flat.   Right now, the association rules do not automatically associate
flats to arcs, therefore we need to specify the processed flat on the
command line.  Using the flat is optional but it is recommended.


.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:
    :lineno-start: 43

    reduce_arcs = Reduce()
    reduce_arcs.files.extend(arcs)
    reduce_arcs.uparms = dict([('flatCorrect:flat', reduce_flats.output_filenames[0])])
    reduce_arcs.runr()

The primitive ``determineWavelengthSolution``, used in the recipe, has an
interactive mode. To activate the interactive mode:

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:
    :lineno-start: 47

    reduce_arcs = Reduce()
    reduce_arcs.files.extend(arcs)
    reduce_arcs.uparms = dict([
                ('flatCorrect:flat', reduce_flats.output_filenames[0]),
                ('interactive', True),
                ])
    reduce_arcs.runr()


The interactive tools are introduced in section :ref:`interactive`.

We can see from the interactive tool plot that the wavelength solution has
reasonable line coverage between 1.98 and 2.4 |um|.

We will see later that the final science spectrum goes about 0.1 |um| beyond
the coverage.  The solution in the outer area is unconstrained.  If the lines
of scientific interest are beyond the line list range and wavelength accuracy
is very important, using sky lines, if strong enough in the science spectrum,
might be a better solution.  (Refer to :ref:`this example <gnirsls_Jband111mm_api_arc>`.)

.. image:: _graphics/gnirsls_Kband32mm_arc.png
   :width: 600
   :alt: Arc line identifications

.. image:: _graphics/gnirsls_Kband32mm_arcfit.png
   :width: 600
   :alt: Arc line fit


Telluric Standard
=================
The telluric standard observed before the science observation is "hip 78649".
The spectral type of the star is A2.5IV.

To properly calculate and fit a telluric model to the star, we need to know
its effective temperature.  To properly scale the sensitivity function (to
use the star as a spectrophotometric standard), we need to know the star's
magnitude.  Those are inputs to the ``fitTelluric`` primitive.

From *Boehm-Vitense, E. 1982 ApJ 255, 191 "Effective temperatures of A and
F stars".*, Table 2, we find that the effective temperature of an A2.5IV star
is about 8150 K. Using Simbad, we find that the star has a magnitude of
K=3.925.

Note that the data are recognized by Astrodata as normal GNIRS longslit science
spectra.  To calculate the telluric correction, we need to specify the telluric
recipe (``reduceTelluric``), otherwise the default science reduction will be
run.

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:
    :lineno-start: 54

    reduce_telluric = Reduce()
    reduce_telluric.files.extend(tellurics)
    reduce_telluric.recipename = 'reduceTelluric'
    reduce_telluric.uparms = dict([
                ('fitTelluric:bbtemp', 8150),
                ('fitTelluric:magnitude', 'K=3.925'),
                ('fitTelluric:interactive', True),
                ])
    reduce_telluric.runr()

Using a Chebyshev polynomial of order 10 leads to a fit that better follows
the continuum without being too wavy.  The fit might look a bit high in the
blue but remember that this is a region where the telluric absorption becomes
important.

.. image:: _graphics/gnirsls_Kband32mm_tellfit.png
   :width: 600
   :alt: fit to the telluric standard

Science Observations
====================
The science target is a white dwarf with an M dwarf companion.  The sequence
is one ABBA dither pattern. DRAGONS will flatfield, wavelength calibrate,
subtract the sky, stack the aligned spectra, extract the source, and finally
remove telluric features and flux calibrate.

Following the wavelength calibration, the default recipe has an optional
step to adjust the wavelength zero point using the sky lines.  By default,
this step will NOT make any adjustment.  We found that in general, the
adjustment is so small as being in the noise.  If you wish to make an
adjustment, or try it out, see :ref:`wavzero` to learn how.

For this dataset, the automatic wavelength zero point algorithm would find a
shift of 0.1461 pixels (-0.09408 nm), so not really significant.  This is
typical and why the default is set to do nothing.

.. note::  In this observation, there is only one real source to extract.  If there
   were multiple sources in the slit, regardless of whether they are of
   interest to the program, DRAGONS will locate them, trace them, and extract
   them automatically. Each extracted spectrum is stored in an individual
   extension in the output multi-extension FITS file.

   The automatic source detection in this case does find two extra spurious
   sources at the extreme left edge of the cross-section.  They are not real
   sources.  Just ignore them or remove them in interactive mode.

This is what one raw image looks like.

.. image:: _graphics/gnirsls_Kband32mm_raw.png
   :width: 400
   :alt: raw science image

With all the calibrations in the local calibration manager, one only needs
to do as follows to reduce the science observations and extract the 1-D
spectrum.

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:
    :lineno-start: 63

    reduce_science = Reduce()
    reduce_science.files.extend(scitarget)
    reduce_science.runr()

To run the reduction with all the interactive tools activated, set the
``interactive`` parameter to ``True``.

At the ``traceApertures`` step, the fit one gets automatically for this source
is perfectly reasonable, well within the envelope of the source aperture.
To improve the fit, one could activate sigma clipping and increase to number
of iteration to 1 to get a straighter fit that ignores the deviant points at
the edges of the spectrum. This can be done manually with the interactive
tool (try it), or on the command line by adding ``-p traceApertures:niter=1``
to the ``reduce`` call.

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:
    :lineno-start: 66

    reduce_science = Reduce()
    reduce_science.files.extend(scitarget)
    reduce_science.uparms = dict([
                        ('traceApertures:niter', 1),
                        ('interactive', True),
                        ])
    reduce_science.runr()

The 2D spectrum before extraction looks like this, with blue wavelengths at
the bottom and the red-end at the top.

.. image:: _graphics/gnirsls_Kband32mm_2d.png
   :width: 400
   :alt: 2D spectrum

The 1D extracted spectrum before telluric correction or flux calibration,
obtained by adding ``('extractSpectra:write_outputs', True)`` to the
``uparms`` dictionary, looks like this.

.. image:: _graphics/gnirsls_Kband32mm_extracted.png
   :width: 600
   :alt: 1D extracted spectrum before telluric correction or flux calibration

The 1D extracted spectrum after telluric correction but before flux
calibration, obtained by adding ``('telluricCorrect:write_outputs', True)`` to the
``uparms`` dictionary, looks
like this.

.. image:: _graphics/gnirsls_Kband32mm_tellcor.png
   :width: 600
   :alt: 1D extracted spectrum after telluric correction or before flux calibration

And the final spectrum, corrected for telluric features and flux calibrated.

.. image:: _graphics/gnirsls_Kband32mm_1d.png
   :width: 600
   :alt: 1D extracted spectrum after telluric correction and flux calibration

Because of the low signal at the edges, it is not unusual for the flux
calibration to diverge at the extremities; the function is simply not well
constrained there.
