.. tags.rst

.. _ad_tags:

****
Tags
****

We described :ref:`in previous section <tags_prop_entry>` how to generate tags for an
AstroData derivative. In this section we'll describe the algorithm that
generates the complete tag set out of the individual ``TagSet`` instances. The
algorithm collects all the tags in a list and then decides whether to apply
them or not following certain rules, but let's talk about ``TagSet`` first.

``TagSet`` is actually a standard named tuple customized to generate default
values (``None``) for its missing members. Its signature is::

    TagSet(add=None, remove=None, blocked_by=None, blocks=None,
           if_present=None)

The most common ``TagSet`` is an **additive** one: ``TagSet(['FOO', 'BAR'])``.
If all you need is to add tags, then you're done here. But the real power of
our tag generating system is that you can specify some conditions to apply a
certain ``TagSet``, or put restrictions on others. The different arguments to
``TagSet`` all expect a list (or some others work in the following way):

* ``add``: if this ``TagSet`` is selected, then add all these members to the tag
  set.
* ``remove``: if this ``TagSet`` is selected, then prevent all these members
  from joining the tag set.
* ``blocked_by``: if any of the tags listed in here exist in the tag set, then
  discard this ``TagSet`` altogether.
* ``blocks``: discard from the list of unprocessed ones any ``TagSet`` that
  would add any of the tags listed here.
* ``if_present``: process this tag only if all the tags listed in here exist in
  the tag set at this point.

Note that ``blocked_by`` and ``blocks`` look like two sides of the same coin.
This is intentional: which one to use is up to the programmer, depending on
what will reduce the amount of typing and/or make the logic easier (sometimes one
wants to block a bunch of other tags from a single one; sometimes one wants a
tag to be blocked by a bunch of others). Furthermore, while ``blocks`` and
``blocked_by`` prevent the entire ``TagSet`` from being added if it contains a
tag affected by these, ``remove`` only affects the specific tag.

Now, the algorithm works like this:

#. Collect all the ``TagSet`` generated by methods in the instance that are
   decorated using ``astro_data_tag``.
#. Then we sort them out:

   #. Those that subtract tags from the tag set go first (the ones with
      non-empty ``remove`` or ``blocks``), allowing them to act early on
   #. Those with non-empty ``blocked_by`` are moved to the end of the list, to
      ensure that other tags can be generated before them.
   #. Those with non-empty ``if_present`` are moved behind those with
      ``blocked_by``.

#. Now that we've sorted the tags, process them sequentially and for each one:

   #. If they require other tags to be present, make sure that this is the case.
      If the requirements are not met, drop the tagset. If not...
   #. Figure out if any other tag is blocking the tagset. This will be the
      case if *any* of the tags to be added is in the "blocked" list, or if
      any of the tags added by previous tag sets are in the ``blocked_by``
      list of the one being processed. Then...
   #. If all the previous hurdles have been passed, apply the changes declared
      by this tag (add, remove, and/or block others).

Note that Python's sort algorithm is stable. This means, that if two elements
are indistinguishable from the point of view of the sorting algorithm, they are
guaranteed to stay in the same relative position. To better understand how this
affects our tags, and the algorithm itself, let's follow up with an example taken
from real code (the Gemini-generic and GMOS modules)::

  # Simple tagset, with only a constant, additive content
  @astro_data_tag
  def _tag_instrument(self):
      return TagSet(['GMOS'])

  # Simple tagset, also with additive content. This one will
  # check if the frame fits the requirements to be classified
  # as "GMOS imaging". It returns a value conditionally:
  # if this is not imaging, then it will return None, which
  # means the algorithm will ignore the value
  @astro_data_tag
  def _tag_image(self):
      if self.phu.get('GRATING') == 'MIRROR':
          return TagSet(['IMAGE'])

  # This is a slightly more complex TagSet (but fairly simple, anyway),
  # inherited by all Gemini instruments.
  @astro_data_tag
  def _type_gcal_lamp(self):
      if self.phu.get('GCALLAMP') == 'IRhigh':
          shut = self.phu.get('GCALSHUT')
          if shut == 'OPEN':
              return TagSet(['GCAL_IR_ON', 'LAMPON'],
                            blocked_by=['PROCESSED'])
          elif shut == 'CLOSED':
              return TagSet(['GCAL_IR_OFF', 'LAMPOFF'],
                            blocked_by=['PROCESSED'])

  # This tagset is only active when we detect that the frame is
  # a bias. In that case we want to prevent the frame from being
  # classified as "imaging" or "spectroscopy", which depend on the
  # configuration of the instrument
  @astro_data_tag
  def _tag_bias(self):
      if self.phu.get('OBSTYPE') == 'BIAS':
          return TagSet(['BIAS', 'CAL'], blocks=['IMAGE', 'SPECT'])

These four simple tag methods will serve to illustrate the algorithm. Let's pretend
that the requirements for all four of them are somehow met, meaning that we get four
``TagSet`` instances in our list, in some random order. After step 1 in the algorithm,
then, we may have collected the following list::

  [ TagSet(['GMOS']),
    TagSet(['GCAL_IR_OFF', 'LAMPOFF'], blocked_by=['PROCESSED']),
    TagSet(['BIAS', 'CAL'], blocks=['IMAGE', 'SPECT']),
    TagSet(['IMAGE']) ]

The algorithm then proceeds to sort them. First, it will promote the ``TagSet``
with non-empty ``blocks`` or ``remove``::

  [ TagSet(['BIAS', 'CAL'], blocks=['IMAGE', 'SPECT']),
    TagSet(['GMOS']),
    TagSet(['GCAL_IR_OFF', 'LAMPOFF'], blocked_by=['PROCESSED']),
    TagSet(['IMAGE']) ]

Note that the other three ``TagSet`` stay in exactly the same order. Now the
algorithm will sort the list again, moving the ones with non-empty
``blocked_by`` to the end::

  [ TagSet(['BIAS', 'CAL'], blocks=['IMAGE', 'SPECT']),
    TagSet(['GMOS']), TagSet(['IMAGE']),
    TagSet(['GCAL_IR_OFF', 'LAMPOFF'], blocked_by=['PROCESSED']) ]

Note that at each step, all the instances (except the ones "being moved") have
kept the same position relative to each other -here's where the "stability" of
the sorting comes into play,- ensuring that each step does not affect the previous
one. Finally, there are no ``if_present`` in our example, so no more instances are
moved around.

Now the algorithm prepares three empty sets (``tags``, ``removals``, and ``blocked``),
and starts iterating over the ``TagSet`` list.

  1. For the first ``TagSet`` there are no blocks or removals, so we just add its
     contents to the current sets: ``tags = {'BIAS', 'CAL'}``,
     ``blocked = {'IMAGE', 'SPECT'}``.
  2. Then comes ``TagSet(['GMOS'])``. Again, there are no removals in place, and
     ``GMOS`` is not in the list of blocked tags. Thus, we just add it to the current
     tag set: ``tags = {'BIAS', 'CAL', 'GMOS'}``.
  3. When processing ``TagSet(['IMAGE'])``, the algorithm observes that this ``IMAGE``
     is in the ``blocked`` set, and stops processing this tag set.
  4. Finally, neither ``GCAL_IR_OFF`` nor ``LAMPOFF`` are in ``blocked``, and
     ``PROCESSED`` is not in ``tags``, meaning that we can add this tag set to
     the final one.

Our result will look something like: ``{'BIAS', 'CAL', 'GMOS', 'GCAL_IR_OFF', 'LAMPOFF'}``
