geminidr/doc/tutorials/GMOSLS-DRTutorial/07_interactive.rst, before:

.. interactive.rst

.. _bokeh: https://bokeh.org

.. _interactive:

*****************
Interactive tools
*****************

.. _interactive_overview:

Overview
========

DRAGONS offers interactive tools for some spectroscopy steps.  The tools are
built with `bokeh`_ and, when invoked, they will pop up automatically in a
browser.

Your preferred browser can be set in the ``~/.dragons/dragonsrc`` configuration
file under the ``interactive`` section.

::

    [interactive]
    browser = your_preferred_browser

The allowed strings are "safari", "chrome", and "firefox".

The primitives that have an interactive mode also have an ``interactive``
input parameter that can be set when a reduction a launched.

To activate the interactive mode for **all** the primitives::

   Command line:
     reduce @files.lis -p interactive=True

   API
     redux = Reduce()
     redux.files = [files_to_reduce]
     redux.uparms = dict([('interactive', True)])

To activate the interactive mode for a specific primitive, eg. ``traceApertures``::

   Command line:
     reduce @files.lis -p traceApertures:interactive=True

   API
     redux = Reduce()
     redux.files = [files_to_reduce]
     redux.uparms = dict([('traceApertures:interactive', True)])


.. _ui_layout:

General layout
==============

The user interface for all the interactive tools follows a uniform general
layout.  The main regions of interest are the "Header", the "Left Panel",
the "Plot Panel", and the "Right Panel".

.. image:: _graphics/traceApertures_annotated.png
   :width: 600
   :alt: General layout

In the "Header", you will find the name of the primitive, the name of the
file that is being worked on, and in the top right, a "Help" button that will
issue a pop-up window with documentation about the interface and the available
adjustments.  You can keep that pop-up window open as you operate the tool.

The "Left Panel" is for adjusting core input parameters to the primitive.
Modifications on that panel requires the tool to go back to the pixels
and regenerate the data used in the plots.  In some case, this can take a
little while.  This is why changes in that panel will always require the user
to click on a blue action button to launch the recalculation only when all the
adjustments to the sliders and text boxes have been made.

The "Plot Panel" is where the fit and various residuals can be visualized.
The plots are interactive.  It is possible to use the cursor and keyboard
commands to reject points, define regions to use, etc.  The gray text
(generally) at the bottom of the "Right Panel", labelled "4" on the picture,
gives a list of the valid actions.  It is context-aware and can change
depending on where your cursor points.  The bokeh interface also has default
cursor-activated features on the right of the plots for selecting points,
zooming in, and repositioning the plots (labelled "2" on the picture).

On the "Plot Panel", there can be tabs for multiple CCDs or multiple apertures.
The tab area is labelled "1" on the picture.

Finally, labelled on the picture as "3" is the "Regions" box.  Regions can be
defined with the cursor and the "r" key, but they can also be defined more
precisely in the region box.

The "Right Panel" is for adjusting the fit to the data in the "Plot Panel".
Any changes to the sliders, checkboxes, text boxes, take effect immediately,
since the response time if very quick, unlike for the "Left Panel"
modifications.




.. _interactive_primitives:

Interactive primitives
======================

There are six primitives with an interactive mode for GMOS longslit.

* :ref:`calculateSensitivity <ui_calculatesensitivity>`
* :ref:`determineWavelengthSolution <ui_determinewavelengthsolution>`
* :ref:`findApertures <ui_findapertures>`
* :ref:`normalizeFlat <ui_normalizeflat>`
* :ref:`skyCorrectFromSlit <ui_skycorrectfromslit>`
* :ref:`traceApertures <ui_traceapertures>`


.. _ui_calculatesensitivity:

calculateSensitivity
--------------------

.. image:: _graphics/calculateSensitivity.png
   :width: 600
   :alt: calculateSensitivity

There is no "Left Panel" for ``calculateSensitivity``.  The available
adjustments are all limited to the fit itself ("Right Panel").  Looking at the
example in the picture, one could decide to use the ``bokeh`` tools on the
right of the plot to select the two outliers and then "mask" them with "m".
Another adjustment might be to lower the order to avoid the flaring on the
red end.  Maybe add some sigma clipping.  Experiment.  The yellow "Reset"
button in the "Right Panel" can easily bring everything back to the default
settings.


.. _ui_determinewavelengthsolution:

determineWavelengthSolution
---------------------------

.. image:: _graphics/determineWavelengthSolution.png
   :width: 600
   :alt: determineWavelengthSolution

The ``determineWavelengthSolution`` interactive interface allows the user to
point to specific lines to delete them or to identify them (ie. assign a
wavelength).  Modifications to the line identification plot will be reflected
in the fit below it.

Beware that modifications in the "Left Panel" can take a while to be applied
when "Reconstruct points" is activated.  There is a fair amount of calculations
involved.

The automatic algorithm for determining the wavelength solution is very stable
and reliable.  In the large majority of cases you will not have any reason
to run ``determineWavelengthSolution`` interactively, other maybe to
visuzalize it.

.. _ui_findapertures:

findApertures
-------------

.. image:: _graphics/findApertures.png
   :width: 600
   :alt: findApertures

The ``findApertures`` interactive tool plots a cross section the 2D spectrum,
along the spatial direction, to show where the sources are located.  The
primitive calculates where
it thinks there are spectra and creates apertures for each.  It can get it
wrong sometimes, especially if you are after a faint source next to on even
in the skirt of a brighter source.  This is where this interactive tool comes
in handy. You fully define your own apertures.  If you were to delete all the
apertures in the picture above, you could point the cursor to a peak and type
"f" to let the software center and define the width of the aperture.  Or, using
the small panel below the standard "Left Panel", you could manually define
your apertures.  This tool as several keyboard controls; they are summarized
in gray fonts below the plot.

.. _ui_normalizeflat:

normalizeFlat
-------------

.. image:: _graphics/normalizeFlat.png
   :width: 600
   :alt: normalizeFlat

The ``normalizeFlat`` tool simply fits a function to the flat signal to
normalize it.  Note the tabs at the top of the plot with "CCD1", "CCD2", and
"CCD3".  GMOS has 3 CCDs.  Each is normalized separately.  You can inspect
the fit for each CCD by clicking on its tab. The slider at the top defaults to
the center of the pixel array.  You can select a different column if you want.

The normalization steps generally works well without any interaction but the
tool is there to visualize the fits if you suspect a problem and need to
correct for it.

.. _ui_skycorrectfromslit:

skyCorrectFromSlit
------------------

.. image:: _graphics/skyCorrectFromSlit.png
   :width: 600
   :alt: skyCorrectFromSlit

The plot shown in the interactive interface to ``skyCorrectFromSlit`` a cut
across the 2D spectrum, along the slit.  If apertures are defined in the
input file (eg. ``findApertures`` as been run) the data points from those
areas will be automatically rejected (in gray triangle).  The objective here
is to fit the background signal, the flux from the sky.   You can define
regions to use to estimate the sky, if some non-sky feature is not
automatically rejected.

The slider at the top allows you to select a column to do the fit on.  This
can be useful when struggling to fit a certain sky line, eg if that sky line
is near a feature of interest in your spectrum and you wish to really optimize
the sky subtraction in that area.  Normally, though the default column (center
of the pixel array) is sufficient to adjust the fit.


.. _ui_traceapertures:

traceApertures
--------------

.. image:: _graphics/traceApertures.png
   :width: 600
   :alt: traceApertures

Using the apertures previously defined, ``traceApertures`` will scan the 2D
spectrum and "follow" the signal and produce the trace of where the signal is
located.  In GMOS, there isn't much variation but there is some as shown in
the picture above.  The interactive tool here allows you to adjust the fit
to best match the signal detected by the tracing algorithm.

Note the "Aperture 1" tab at the top of the plot.  If more than one source is
found, ie. more than one aperture, each aperture will have a tab.  You should
inspect all the apertures of interest.

The tracing algorithm can be controlled with the "Left Panel".  There might
be cases (eg. faint sources) where the defaults struggle to follow the signal
and the plot looks really noisy or odd.  You can experiment with those input
parameters to see if you can get a better trace to fit.

Commit message:

adding instructions on how to run interactive tools in Jupyter notebooks.

geminidr/doc/tutorials/GMOSLS-DRTutorial/07_interactive.rst, after:

.. interactive.rst

.. _bokeh: https://bokeh.org

.. _interactive:

*****************
Interactive tools
*****************

.. _interactive_overview:

Overview
========

DRAGONS offers interactive tools for some spectroscopy steps.  The tools are
built with `bokeh`_ and, when invoked, they will pop up automatically in a
browser.

Your preferred browser can be set in the ``~/.dragons/dragonsrc`` configuration
file under the ``interactive`` section.

::

    [interactive]
    browser = your_preferred_browser

The allowed strings are "safari", "chrome", and "firefox".

The primitives that have an interactive mode also have an ``interactive``
input parameter that can be set when a reduction a launched.

To activate the interactive mode for **all** the primitives::

   Command line:
     reduce @files.lis -p interactive=True

   API
     redux = Reduce()
     redux.files = [files_to_reduce]
     redux.uparms = dict([('interactive', True)])

To activate the interactive mode for a specific primitive, eg. ``traceApertures``::

   Command line:
     reduce @files.lis -p traceApertures:interactive=True

   API
     redux = Reduce()
     redux.files = [files_to_reduce]
     redux.uparms = dict([('traceApertures:interactive', True)])

.. _jupyter:

Jupyter notebooks
=================
If you are using Jupyter notebooks, add these two lines at the top of your
notebook to enable the interactive tools::

    import nest_asyncio
    nest_asyncio.apply()

We do not formally support Jupyter notebooks but adding those two lines appears
to work.

.. _ui_layout:

General layout
==============

The user interface for all the interactive tools follows a uniform general
layout.  The main regions of interest are the "Header", the "Left Panel",
the "Plot Panel", and the "Right Panel".

.. image:: _graphics/traceApertures_annotated.png
   :width: 600
   :alt: General layout

In the "Header", you will find the name of the primitive, the name of the
file that is being worked on, and in the top right, a "Help" button that will
issue a pop-up window with documentation about the interface and the available
adjustments.  You can keep that pop-up window open as you operate the tool.

The "Left Panel" is for adjusting core input parameters to the primitive.
Modifications on that panel requires the tool to go back to the pixels
and regenerate the data used in the plots.  In some case, this can take a
little while.  This is why changes in that panel will always require the user
to click on a blue action button to launch the recalculation only when all the
adjustments to the sliders and text boxes have been made.

The "Plot Panel" is where the fit and various residuals can be visualized.
The plots are interactive.  It is possible to use the cursor and keyboard
commands to reject points, define regions to use, etc.  The gray text
(generally) at the bottom of the "Right Panel", labelled "4" on the picture,
gives a list of the valid actions.  It is context-aware and can change
depending on where your cursor points.  The bokeh interface also has default
cursor-activated features on the right of the plots for selecting points,
zooming in, and repositioning the plots (labelled "2" on the picture).

On the "Plot Panel", there can be tabs for multiple CCDs or multiple apertures.
The tab area is labelled "1" on the picture.

Finally, labelled on the picture as "3" is the "Regions" box.  Regions can be
defined with the cursor and the "r" key, but they can also be defined more
precisely in the region box.

The "Right Panel" is for adjusting the fit to the data in the "Plot Panel".
Any changes to the sliders, checkboxes, text boxes, take effect immediately,
since the response time if very quick, unlike for the "Left Panel"
modifications.




.. _interactive_primitives:

Interactive primitives
======================

There are six primitives with an interactive mode for GMOS longslit.

* :ref:`calculateSensitivity <ui_calculatesensitivity>`
* :ref:`determineWavelengthSolution <ui_determinewavelengthsolution>`
* :ref:`findApertures <ui_findapertures>`
* :ref:`normalizeFlat <ui_normalizeflat>`
* :ref:`skyCorrectFromSlit <ui_skycorrectfromslit>`
* :ref:`traceApertures <ui_traceapertures>`


.. _ui_calculatesensitivity:

calculateSensitivity
--------------------

.. image:: _graphics/calculateSensitivity.png
   :width: 600
   :alt: calculateSensitivity

There is no "Left Panel" for ``calculateSensitivity``.  The available
adjustments are all limited to the fit itself ("Right Panel").  Looking at the
example in the picture, one could decide to use the ``bokeh`` tools on the
right of the plot to select the two outliers and then "mask" them with "m".
Another adjustment might be to lower the order to avoid the flaring on the
red end.  Maybe add some sigma clipping.  Experiment.  The yellow "Reset"
button in the "Right Panel" can easily bring everything back to the default
settings.


.. _ui_determinewavelengthsolution:

determineWavelengthSolution
---------------------------

.. image:: _graphics/determineWavelengthSolution.png
   :width: 600
   :alt: determineWavelengthSolution

The ``determineWavelengthSolution`` interactive interface allows the user to
point to specific lines to delete them or to identify them (ie. assign a
wavelength).  Modifications to the line identification plot will be reflected
in the fit below it.

Beware that modifications in the "Left Panel" can take a while to be applied
when "Reconstruct points" is activated.  There is a fair amount of calculations
involved.

The automatic algorithm for determining the wavelength solution is very stable
and reliable.  In the large majority of cases you will not have any reason
to run ``determineWavelengthSolution`` interactively, other maybe to
visuzalize it.

.. _ui_findapertures:

findApertures
-------------

.. image:: _graphics/findApertures.png
   :width: 600
   :alt: findApertures

The ``findApertures`` interactive tool plots a cross section the 2D spectrum,
along the spatial direction, to show where the sources are located.  The
primitive calculates where
it thinks there are spectra and creates apertures for each.  It can get it
wrong sometimes, especially if you are after a faint source next to on even
in the skirt of a brighter source.  This is where this interactive tool comes
in handy. You fully define your own apertures.  If you were to delete all the
apertures in the picture above, you could point the cursor to a peak and type
"f" to let the software center and define the width of the aperture.  Or, using
the small panel below the standard "Left Panel", you could manually define
your apertures.  This tool as several keyboard controls; they are summarized
in gray fonts below the plot.

.. _ui_normalizeflat:

normalizeFlat
-------------

.. image:: _graphics/normalizeFlat.png
   :width: 600
   :alt: normalizeFlat

The ``normalizeFlat`` tool simply fits a function to the flat signal to
normalize it.  Note the tabs at the top of the plot with "CCD1", "CCD2", and
"CCD3".  GMOS has 3 CCDs.  Each is normalized separately.  You can inspect
the fit for each CCD by clicking on its tab. The slider at the top defaults to
the center of the pixel array.  You can select a different column if you want.

The normalization steps generally works well without any interaction but the
tool is there to visualize the fits if you suspect a problem and need to
correct for it.

.. _ui_skycorrectfromslit:

skyCorrectFromSlit
------------------

.. image:: _graphics/skyCorrectFromSlit.png
   :width: 600
   :alt: skyCorrectFromSlit

The plot shown in the interactive interface to ``skyCorrectFromSlit`` a cut
across the 2D spectrum, along the slit.  If apertures are defined in the
input file (eg. ``findApertures`` as been run) the data points from those
areas will be automatically rejected (in gray triangle).  The objective here
is to fit the background signal, the flux from the sky.   You can define
regions to use to estimate the sky, if some non-sky feature is not
automatically rejected.

The slider at the top allows you to select a column to do the fit on.  This
can be useful when struggling to fit a certain sky line, eg if that sky line
is near a feature of interest in your spectrum and you wish to really optimize
the sky subtraction in that area.  Normally, though the default column (center
of the pixel array) is sufficient to adjust the fit.


.. _ui_traceapertures:

traceApertures
--------------

.. image:: _graphics/traceApertures.png
   :width: 600
   :alt: traceApertures

Using the apertures previously defined, ``traceApertures`` will scan the 2D
spectrum and "follow" the signal and produce the trace of where the signal is
located.  In GMOS, there isn't much variation but there is some as shown in
the picture above.  The interactive tool here allows you to adjust the fit
to best match the signal detected by the tracing algorithm.

Note the "Aperture 1" tab at the top of the plot.  If more than one source is
found, ie. more than one aperture, each aperture will have a tab.  You should
inspect all the apertures of interest.

The tracing algorithm can be controlled with the "Left Panel".  There might
be cases (eg. faint sources) where the defaults struggle to follow the signal
and the plot looks really noisy or odd.  You can experiment with those input
parameters to see if you can get a better trace to fit.
