.TH adcc 1 "16 Feb 2017" "version 2.0(beta)" "adcc man page"
.SH NAME
adcc \- Automated Dataflow Coordination Center (adcc)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B adcc
[\fB\-h\fR]
[\fB\-d\fR]
[\fB\-v\fR]
[\fB\--startup-report\fR ADCCSRN]
[\fB\--http-port\fR HTTPORT]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B adcc(1)
Historically known as the "adcc", the application provides a HTTP
server that listens on either a user-provided port number (via \fB\--http-port\fR),
or the default port of 8777. This webserver provides an interactive, graphical
interface by which users can monitor incoming metrics that may be reported by
recipe system pipelines (recipes), specifically the Quality Assurance Pipeline
(QAP). The near real time QAP produces image quality and weather related metrics
that are passed to the \fBadcc\fR as message events. Users wishing to use the adcc
to monitor QA metrics need to simply open a web browser on the service's URL.

E.g., Start the adcc,

    $ adcc

And open a browser window on

    http://localhost:8777/qap/nighttime_metrics.html

Start the adcc on another port:

    $ adcc --http-port 8778

And point a browser to

    http://localhost:8778/qap/nighttime_metrics.html

When metrics are produced and sent to the adcc, the display will automatically
update with the latest metric event. If users are processing datasets taken on a
day prior to the current operational day, the URL to monitor metrics produced
for that day is

     http://localhost:8778/qap/nighttime_metrics.html?date=YYYYMMDD

When the adcc is started, certain information is written to a special file in
a .adcc directory that records the process id (pid) of the adcc instance and
port number on which the web server is listening.

.B N.B.
Currently, only one adcc instance is permitted to run. Should users move to another
directory, another adcc will not be allowed to start. Users running the QA pipeline,
or other recipes that may produce metrics, should remain in the directory containing
the .adcc directory before starting \fBreduce(1)\fR.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h, --help
show the
.B adcc
help message and exit
.TP
.B -d, --dark
Use the adcc faceplate 'dark' theme.
.TP
.B -v, --verbose
increase HTTP client messaging on GET requests.
.TP
\fB\--startup-report\fR ADCCSRN
file name for adcc startup report. This contains information about the http port
and process id. Report name is adccReport.
.TP
\fB\--http-port\fR HTTPPORT
Response port for the web interface. i.e. http://localhost:<http-port>.
Default is 8777.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT
Recommend Anaconda 4.2.0, Astropy 1.2.1. (Ureka 1.5.2 should also work for
awhile.)

.SH FILES
\fBadccinfo.py\fR - Written on startup in ./.adcc/. Contains information on the process
such as port number and process id.

\fBadccReport\fR - ibid.

.SH BUGS
None known.

.SH SEE ALSO
.I reduce(1)
