.TH reduce 1 "1 Dec. 2016" "version 0.1" "reduce man page"
.SH NAME
reduce \- Recipe Processing Management System, v2.0, command line interface (cli)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B reduce
[\fB\-h\fR]
[\fB\-v\fR]
[\fB\-d\fR]
[\fB\--adpkg\fR ADPKG]
[\fB\--drpkg\fR DRPKG]
[\fB\--logmode\fR LOGMODE]
[\fB\--logfile\fR LOGFILE]
[\fB\-p\fR USERPARAM [USERPARAM ...]]
[\fB\--qa\fR]
[\fB\--ql\fR]
[\fB\-r\fR RECIPENAME]
[\fB\--suffix\fR SUFFIX]
[\fB\--upload\fR UPLOAD]
[\fB\--user_cal\fR USER_CAL]
fitsfile [fitsfile ...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B reduce(1)
provides a command line interface that can be used to configure and launch a
pipeline (a 'recipe') under the Recipe Processing Management System, a.k.a.,
the Recipe System, on input dataset(s). Control of reduce and the recipe system
is provided by a variety of options and switches.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h, --help
show the
.B reduce
help message and exit
.TP
.B -v, --version
show program's version number and exit
.TP
.B -d , --displayflags
display all parsed option flags and exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-adpkg\fR ADPKG
Specify an external astrodata definitions package. This is only passed for
non-Gemini instruments.The package must be importable.
.RS
E.g.,
.RS
\fB\-\-adpkg\fR ghost_instruments
.RE
.RE
.TP
\fB\-\-drpkg\fR DRPKG
Specify another data reduction (dr) package. The package must be
importable either through sys.path or a user's PYTHONPATH.
Default is 'geminidr'.
.RS
E.g.,
.RS
\fB\-\-drpkg\fR ghostdr
.RE
.RE
.TP
\fB\--logfile\fR LOGFILE
Name of log file (default is
.B 'reduce.log'
)
.TP
\fB\--logmode\fR LOGMODE
Set log mode. One of \fB\ standard, quiet, debug\fR
(default is \fB\ standard\fR)
.RE
.RE
.TP
\fB\-p\fR USERPARAM [USERPARAM ...], \fB\--param\fR USERPARAM [USERPARAM ...]
Set a primitive parameter from the command line. The form,
.B -p par=val
sets a parameter such that all primitives with that defined parameter will
'see' it.  The form:
\fB\-p primitivename:par=val\fR, focuses the parameter only for 'primitivename'.
Separate par/val pairs by whitespace:
.RS
E.g., \fB\-p\fR par1=val1 par2=val2).
.RE
.TP
\fB\-r\fR RECIPENAME, \fB\--recipe\fR RECIPENAME
Specify a recipe by name. Users can request non-default system recipe
functions by their simple names, e.g.,
.B -r qaStack
OR may specify their own recipe file and recipe function. A user defined
recipe function must be 'dotted' with the recipe file.
.RS
E.g.,
.RS
\fB\-r\fR /path/to/recipes/recipefile.recipe_function
.RE

For a recipe file in the current working directory (cwd), only the file name
is needed, as in,
.RS
\fB\-r\fR recipefile.recipe_function
.RE

The fact that the recipe function is dotted with the recipe file name implies
that multiple user defined recipe functions can be defined in a single file.

Readers should understand that these recipe files shall behave as python
modules and should be named accordingly. I.e., in the example above,
.B 'recipefile'
is a python module named,
.B 'recipefile.py'
.RE

.TP
\fB\--qa\fR
Use
.B qa
mode. This switch requests the
.B Quality Assessment
recipe 'mode' for recipe selection and primitives sensitive to this mode.
Default mode is
.B sq
or
.B Science Quality
mode.
.RE

.TP
\fB\--ql\fR
Use
.B ql
mode. This switch requests the
.B Quick Look
recipe 'mode' for recipe selection and primitives
sensitive to this mode. Default mode is
.B sq
or
.B Science Quality
mode.
.RE

.TP
\fB\-\-suffix\fR SUFFIX
Add SUFFIX to filenames at end of reduction; strip all other suffixes
marked by '_'.
.RE
.TP
\fB\-\-upload\fR PROD [PROD ...]
Send these pipeline products to fitsstore. Default is None.
.RS
E.g.,
.RS
\fB\-\-upload\fR metrics calibs science
.RE
.RE
.TP
\fB\-\-user_cal\fR USER_CAL
Specify user supplied calibrations for calibration types.
.RS
E.g.,
.RS
\fB\-\-user_cal\fR processed_arc:gsTest_arc.fits
.RE
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT
Recommend Anaconda 4.2.0, Astropy 1.2.1.

.SH BUGS
None known

.SH SEE ALSO
.I typewalk(1)
