geminidr/doc/tutorials/GNIRSImg-DRTutorial/ex1_gnirsim_twostars_cmdline.rst, before:

.. ex1_gnirsim_twostars_cmdline.rst

.. _twostars_cmdline:

***************************************************************************************
Example 1 - Keyhole imaging of two stars with dithers - Using the "reduce" command line
***************************************************************************************

In this example we will reduce a GNIRS keyhole imaging observation of a point
source using the "|reduce|" command that is operated directly from the unix
shell.  Just open a terminal to get started.

This observation is a simple dither on target.

The dataset
===========
If you have not already, download and unpack the tutorial's data package.
Refer to the :ref:`datasetup` for the links and simple instructions.

The dataset specific to this example is described in:

    :ref:`twostars_dataset`.

Here is a copy of the table for quick reference.

+---------------+----------------------------------------------+
| Science       || N20120117S0014-33 (J-band, on-target)       |
+---------------+----------------------------------------------+
| Science darks || N20120102S0538-547 (60 sec, like Science)   |
+---------------+----------------------------------------------+
| Flats         || N20120117S0034-41 (lamps-on)                |
|               || N20120117S0042-49 (lamps-off)               |
+---------------+----------------------------------------------+
| BPM           || bpm_20100716_gnirs_gnirsn_11_full_1amp.fits |
+---------------+----------------------------------------------+

Set up the Local Calibration Manager
====================================

.. important::  Remember to set up the calibration service.

    Instructions to configure and use the calibration service are found in
    :ref:`cal_service`, specifically the these sections:
    :ref:`cal_service_config` and :ref:`cal_service_cmdline`.


Create file lists
=================
This data set contains science and calibration frames. For some programs, it
could have different observed targets and different exposure times depending
on how you like to organize your raw data.

The DRAGONS data reduction pipeline does not organize the data for you.  You
have to do it.  DRAGONS provides tools to help you with that.

The first step is to create input file lists.  The tool "|dataselect|" helps
with that.  It uses Astrodata tags and "|descriptors|" to select the files and
send the filenames to a text file that can then be fed to "|reduce|".  (See the
|astrodatauser| for information about Astrodata.)

First, navigate to the ``playground`` directory in the unpacked data package.

::

    cd <path>/gnirsim_tutorial/playground

A list of the darks
-------------------
There is only one set of 60-second darks in the data package.  To create the
list, one simply needs to select on the ``DARK`` tag::

    dataselect ../playdata/example1/*.fits --tags DARK -o darks60.lis

If there was a need to select specifically on the 60-second darks, the
command would use the ``exposure_time`` descriptor::

    dataselect ../playdata/example1/*.fits --tags DARK --expr='exposure_time==60' -o darks60.lis

A list for the flats
--------------------
The flats are a sequence of lamp-on and lamp-off exposures.  We just send all
of them to one list.

::

    dataselect ../playdata/example1/*.fits --tags FLAT -o flats.lis

A list for the science observations
-----------------------------------
The science frames are all the ``IMAGE`` non-``FLAT`` frames in the data
package.  They are also the ``J`` filter images that are non-``FLAT``. And
they are the ones with an object name ``GRB120116A``.  Those are all valid
ways to select the science observations.  Here we show all three ways as
examples; of course, just one is required.

::

    dataselect ../playdata/example1/*.fits --tags IMAGE --xtags FLAT -o target.lis

    dataselect ../playdata/example1/*.fits --xtags FLAT --expr='filter_name=="J"' -o target.lis

    dataselect ../playdata/example1/*.fits --expr='object=="GRB120116A"' -o target.lis

Pick the one you prefer, they all yield the same list.

.. note::

   For GNIRS data, it is useful to check the World Coordinate System (WCS)
   of the science data.

   ::

       $ reduce -r checkWCS @target.lis

   Please see details in :ref:`checkWCS` in the :ref:`tips_and_tricks` chapter.


Master Dark
===========
We first create the master dark for the science target, then add it to the
calibration database.  The name of the output master dark,
``N20120102S0538_dark.fits``, is written to the screen at the end of the
process.

::

    reduce @darks60.lis

The ``@`` character before the name of the input file is the "at-file" syntax.
More details can be found in the |atfile| documentation.

Because the database was given the "store" option in the ``dragonsrc`` file,
the processed dark will be automatically added to the database at the end of
the recipe.

.. note:: The file name of the output processed dark is the file name of the
          first file in the list with `_dark` appended as a suffix. This is the
          general naming scheme used by "|reduce|".

.. note:: If you wish to inspect the processed calibrations before adding them
    to the calibration database, remove the "store" option attached to the
    database in the ``dragonsrc`` configuration file.  You will then have to
    add the calibrations manually following your inspection, eg.

    ``caldb add N20120102S0538_dark.fits``

Bad Pixel Mask
==============
Starting with DRAGONS v3.1, the bad pixel masks (BPMs) are now handled as
calibrations.  They are downloadable from the archive instead of being
packaged with the software. They are automatically associated like any other
calibrations.  This means that the user now must download the BPMs along with
the other calibrations and add the BPMs to the local calibration manager.

See :ref:`getBPM` in :ref:`tips_and_tricks` to learn about the various ways
to get the BPMs from the archive.

To add the static BPM included in the data package to the local calibration
database:

::

    caldb add ../playdata/example1/bpm*.fits



Master Flat Field
=================
A GNIRS master flat is created from a series of lamp-on and lamp-off exposures.
Each flavor is stacked, then the lamp-off stack is subtracted from the lamp-on
stack.

We create the master flat field and add it to the calibration database as
follows::

    reduce @flats.lis


Science Observations
====================
The science targets are two point sources.  The sequence dithers on-target,
moving the sources across the thin keyhole aperture.  The sky frames for each
science image will be the adjacent dithered frames obtained within a certain
time limit.  The default for GNIRS keyhole images is "within 600 seconds".
This can be seen by using "|showpars|"::

    showpars ../playdata/example1/N20120117S0014.fits associateSky

.. image:: _graphics/showpars_associateSky.png
   :scale: 100%
   :align: center

The BPM, the master dark and the master flat are in our local calibration
database.  For any other Gemini facility instrument, they would both be
retrieved automatically by the calibration manager.  However, GNIRS not being
an imager, and the keyhole being normally used only for acquisition, it turns
out that there are no calibration association rules between GNIRS keyhole images
and darks.   We can specify the dark on the command line.  The flat will be
retrieved automatically.

::

    reduce @target.lis --user_cal processed_dark:N20120102S0538_dark.fits

The output stack units are in electrons (header keyword BUNIT=electrons).
The output stack is stored in a multi-extension FITS (MEF) file.  The science
signal is in the "SCI" extension, the variance is in the "VAR" extension, and
the data quality plane (mask) is in the "DQ" extension.

Below are a raw image (top) and the final stacked image (bottom).  The stack
keeps all the pixels and is never cropped to only the common area. Of course
the areas covered by less than the full stack of images will have a lower
signal-to-noise.

.. image:: _graphics/gnirs_keyhole_before.png
   :scale: 60%
   :align: center

.. image:: _graphics/gnirs_keyhole_after.png
   :scale: 60%
   :align: center

Commit message:

fixes to tutorials, and added todos that need looking into before release.

geminidr/doc/tutorials/GNIRSImg-DRTutorial/ex1_gnirsim_twostars_cmdline.rst, after:

.. ex1_gnirsim_twostars_cmdline.rst

.. _twostars_cmdline:

***************************************************************************************
Example 1 - Keyhole imaging of two stars with dithers - Using the "reduce" command line
***************************************************************************************

In this example we will reduce a GNIRS keyhole imaging observation of a point
source using the "|reduce|" command that is operated directly from the unix
shell.  Just open a terminal to get started.

This observation is a simple dither on target.

The dataset
===========
If you have not already, download and unpack the tutorial's data package.
Refer to the :ref:`datasetup` for the links and simple instructions.

The dataset specific to this example is described in:

    :ref:`twostars_dataset`.

Here is a copy of the table for quick reference.

+---------------+----------------------------------------------+
| Science       || N20120117S0014-33 (J-band, on-target)       |
+---------------+----------------------------------------------+
| Science darks || N20120102S0538-547 (60 sec, like Science)   |
+---------------+----------------------------------------------+
| Flats         || N20120117S0034-41 (lamps-on)                |
|               || N20120117S0042-49 (lamps-off)               |
+---------------+----------------------------------------------+
| BPM           || bpm_20100716_gnirs_gnirsn_11_full_1amp.fits |
+---------------+----------------------------------------------+

Set up the Local Calibration Manager
====================================

.. important::  Remember to set up the calibration service.

    Instructions to configure and use the calibration service are found in
    :ref:`cal_service`, specifically the these sections:
    :ref:`cal_service_config` and :ref:`cal_service_cmdline`.


Create file lists
=================
This data set contains science and calibration frames. For some programs, it
could have different observed targets and different exposure times depending
on how you like to organize your raw data.

The DRAGONS data reduction pipeline does not organize the data for you.  You
have to do it.  DRAGONS provides tools to help you with that.

The first step is to create input file lists.  The tool "|dataselect|" helps
with that.  It uses Astrodata tags and "|descriptors|" to select the files and
send the filenames to a text file that can then be fed to "|reduce|".  (See the
|astrodatauser| for information about Astrodata.)

First, navigate to the ``playground`` directory in the unpacked data package.

::

    cd <path>/gnirsim_tutorial/playground

A list of the darks
-------------------
There is only one set of 60-second darks in the data package.  To create the
list, one simply needs to select on the ``DARK`` tag::

    dataselect ../playdata/example1/*.fits --tags DARK -o darks60.lis

If there was a need to select specifically on the 60-second darks, the
command would use the ``exposure_time`` descriptor::

    dataselect ../playdata/example1/*.fits --tags DARK --expr='exposure_time==60' -o darks60.lis

A list for the flats
--------------------
The flats are a sequence of lamp-on and lamp-off exposures.  We just send all
of them to one list.

::

    dataselect ../playdata/example1/*.fits --tags FLAT -o flats.lis

A list for the science observations
-----------------------------------
The science frames are all the ``IMAGE`` non-``FLAT`` frames in the data
package.  They are also the ``J`` filter images that are non-``FLAT``. And
they are the ones with an object name ``GRB120116A``.  Those are all valid
ways to select the science observations.  Here we show all three ways as
examples; of course, just one is required.

::

    dataselect ../playdata/example1/*.fits --tags IMAGE --xtags FLAT -o target.lis

    dataselect ../playdata/example1/*.fits --xtags FLAT --expr='filter_name=="J"' -o target.lis

    dataselect ../playdata/example1/*.fits --expr='object=="GRB120116A"' -o target.lis

Pick the one you prefer, they all yield the same list.

.. note::

   For GNIRS data, it is useful to check the World Coordinate System (WCS)
   of the science data.

   ::

       $ reduce -r checkWCS @target.lis

   Please see details in :ref:`checkWCS` in the :ref:`tips_and_tricks` chapter.


Master Dark
===========
We first create the master dark for the science target, then add it to the
calibration database.  The name of the output master dark,
``N20120102S0538_dark.fits``, is written to the screen at the end of the
process.

::

    reduce @darks60.lis

The ``@`` character before the name of the input file is the "at-file" syntax.
More details can be found in the |atfile| documentation.

Because the database was given the "store" option in the ``dragonsrc`` file,
the processed dark will be automatically added to the database at the end of
the recipe.

.. note:: The file name of the output processed dark is the file name of the
          first file in the list with `_dark` appended as a suffix. This is the
          general naming scheme used by "|reduce|".

.. note:: If you wish to inspect the processed calibrations before adding them
    to the calibration database, remove the "store" option attached to the
    database in the ``dragonsrc`` configuration file.  You will then have to
    add the calibrations manually following your inspection, eg.

    ``caldb add N20120102S0538_dark.fits``

Bad Pixel Mask
==============
Starting with DRAGONS v3.1, the bad pixel masks (BPMs) are now handled as
calibrations.  They are downloadable from the archive instead of being
packaged with the software. They are automatically associated like any other
calibrations.  This means that the user now must download the BPMs along with
the other calibrations and add the BPMs to the local calibration manager.

See :ref:`getBPM` in :ref:`tips_and_tricks` to learn about the various ways
to get the BPMs from the archive.

To add the static BPM included in the data package to the local calibration
database:

::

    caldb add ../playdata/example1/bpm*.fits



Master Flat Field
=================
A GNIRS master flat is created from a series of lamp-on and lamp-off exposures.
Each flavor is stacked, then the lamp-off stack is subtracted from the lamp-on
stack.

We create the master flat field and add it to the calibration database as
follows::

    reduce @flats.lis


Science Observations
====================
The science targets are two point sources.  The sequence dithers on-target,
moving the sources across the thin keyhole aperture.  The sky frames for each
science image will be the adjacent dithered frames obtained within a certain
time limit.  The default for GNIRS keyhole images is "within 600 seconds".
This can be seen by using "|showpars|"::

    showpars ../playdata/example1/N20120117S0014.fits associateSky

.. image:: _graphics/showpars_associateSky.png
   :scale: 100%
   :align: center

The BPM, the master dark and the master flat are in our local calibration
database.  For any other Gemini facility instrument, they would both be
retrieved automatically by the calibration manager.  However, GNIRS not being
an imager, and the keyhole being normally used only for acquisition, it turns
out that there are no calibration association rules between GNIRS keyhole images
and darks.   We can specify the dark on the command line.  The flat will be
retrieved automatically.

.. todo:: The cleanReadout needs to be turned off.  It doesn't do a good job.
        The FFT version does better on the individual frames, but the difference
        in background level of the 4 quadrants messes up the source detection.
        That is "fixed" by setting `mask=True` in detectSources.  Regardless,
        the final stack is still bad in a similar way as for the std cleanReadout.

::

    reduce @target.lis --user_cal processed_dark:N20120102S0538_dark.fits -p cleanReadout:clean=skip

The output stack units are in electrons (header keyword BUNIT=electrons).
The output stack is stored in a multi-extension FITS (MEF) file.  The science
signal is in the "SCI" extension, the variance is in the "VAR" extension, and
the data quality plane (mask) is in the "DQ" extension.

Below are a raw image (top) and the final stacked image (bottom).  The stack
keeps all the pixels and is never cropped to only the common area. Of course
the areas covered by less than the full stack of images will have a lower
signal-to-noise.

.. image:: _graphics/gnirs_keyhole_before.png
   :scale: 60%
   :align: center

.. image:: _graphics/gnirs_keyhole_after.png
   :scale: 60%
   :align: center
